In this case, you should revise your report, provide any missing
information, and address the security team's additional concerns.
在这种情况下，你应该修改你的报告，提供任何缺失的信息，并应对安全团队提出的额外关注。
#### Informative {#c02.xhtml#h3-123456c01-0006}
If the security team marks your report as *informative* , they won't fix
the bug. This means they believe the issue you reported is a security
concern but not significant enough to warrant a fix. Vulnerabilities
that do not impact other users, such as the ability to increase your own
scores on an online game, often fall into this category. Another type of
bug often marked as informative is a missing security best practice,
like allowing users to reuse passwords.
如果安全团队将您的报告标记为"有用"，则他们不会修复该漏洞。这意味着他们认为您报告的问题是安全问题，但不足以需要解决。不会影响其他用户的漏洞（如在在线游戏中增加自己的分数的能力）通常属于此类别。另一种通常标记为"有用"的错误是缺失的安全最佳实践，例如允许用户重复使用密码。
In this case, there's nothing more you can do for the report! The
company won't pay you a bounty, and you don't have to follow up, unless
you believe the security team made a mistake. However, I do recommend
that you keep track of informative issues and try to chain them into
bigger, more impactful bugs.
在这种情况下，你对这份报告已经无能为力了！公司不打算支付你赏金，而且你也不需要跟进，除非你认为安全团队犯了错误。不过，我建议你继续追踪信息问题，并尝试将它们链接成更大、更有影响力的漏洞。
#### Duplicate {#c02.xhtml#h3-123456c01-0007}
A *duplicate* report status means another hacker has already found the
bug, and the company is in the process of remediating the vulnerability.
重复报告状态意味着另一个黑客已经发现了漏洞，并且公司正在修复这个漏洞的过程中。
Unfortunately, since companies award bug bounties to only the first
hacker who finds the bug, you won't get paid for duplicates. There's
nothing more to do with the report besides helping the company resolve
the issue. You can also try to escalate or chain the bug into a more
impactful bug. That way, the security team might see the new report as a
separate issue and reward you.
很遗憾，因为公司只向第一个发现漏洞的黑客授予漏洞赏金，因此重复提交的漏洞是无法获得报酬的。除了帮助公司解决问题外，报告中没有其他事情可做。您还可以尝试将漏洞升级或链接至更具影响力的漏洞。这样，安全团队可能会将新报告视为单独的问题并奖励您。
#### N/A {#c02.xhtml#h3-123456c01-0008}
A *not applicable (* *N/A* *)* status means your report doesn't contain
a valid security issue with security implications. This might happen
when your report contains technical errors, or if the bug is intentional
application behavior.
\"N/A状态意味着您的报告中没有安全问题或安全问题对应的有效信息。这可能是由于您的报告存在技术错误，或者该漏洞是应用程序的意料之中的行为所致。\"
N/A reports don't pay. There is nothing more for you to do here besides
move on and continue hacking!
N/A报告不会付款。除了继续黑客攻击之外，你在这里没有更多事要做了！
#### Triaged {#c02.xhtml#h3-123456c01-0009}
Security teams *triage* a report when they've validated the report on
their end. This is great news for you, because this usually means the
security team is going to fix the bug and reward you with a bounty.
安全团队在验证报告后进行分类处理。这对你来说是个好消息，因为这通常意味着安全团队将修复漏洞并奖励你赏金。
Once the report has been triaged, you should help the security team fix
the issue. Follow up with their questions promptly, and provide any
additional information they ask for.
一旦报告被分类，您就应该帮助安全团队修复该问题。尽快跟进他们的问题，并提供他们所要求的任何附加信息。
#### [ ]{#c02.xhtml#Page_23 .pagebreak title="23"} Resolved {#c02.xhtml#h3-123456c01-0010}
When your report is marked as *resolved* , the reported vulnerability
has been fixed. At this point, pat yourself on the back and rejoice in
the fact that you've made the internet a little safer. If you are
participating in a paid bug bounty program, you can also expect to
receive your payment at this point!
当您的报告被标记为已解决时，报告的漏洞已经被修复。此时，请给自己打个"赞"，并欣喜地看到您让互联网更加安全了一点。如果您参加的是有偿漏洞赏金计划，那么此时您也可以期待收到您的报酬！
There's nothing more to do with the report besides celebrate and
continue hacking.
除了庆祝并继续攻击之外，报告没有更多的事情要做了。
### Dealing with Conflict {#c02.xhtml#h2-123456c01-0011}
Not all reports can be resolved quickly and smoothly. Conflicts
inevitably happen when the hacker and the security team disagree on the
validity of the bug, the severity of the bug, or the appropriate payout
amount. Even so, conflicts could ruin your reputation as a hacker, so
handling them professionally is key to a successful bug hunting career.
Here's what you should do if you find yourself in conflict with the
security team.
并非所有报告都能迅速和顺利地解决。当黑客和安全团队就漏洞的有效性、严重程度或适当的红利金额存在分歧时，冲突不可避免。即便如此，冲突可能会毁掉你作为黑客的声誉，因此，处理冲突是一个成功的漏洞狩猎生涯的关键。如果您与安全团队发生冲突，以下是您应该做的事情。
When you disagree with the security team about the validity of the bug,
first make sure that all the information in your initial report is
correct. Often, security teams mark reports as informative or N/A
because of a technical or writing mistake. For example, if you included
incorrect URLs in your POC, the security team might not be able to
reproduce the issue. If this caused the disagreement, send over a
follow-up report with the correct information as soon as possible.
当您对安全团队关于缺陷的有效性有异议时，请首先确保初始报告中的所有信息都是正确的。通常，由于技术或写作错误，安全团队将报告标记为"信息性"或"N/A"。例如，如果您在POC中包含了错误的URL，则安全团队可能无法重现问题。如果这引起了分歧，请尽快发送带有正确信息的后续报告。
On the other hand, if you didn't make a mistake in your report but still
believe they've labeled the issue incorrectly, send a follow-up
explaining why you believe that the bug is a security issue. If that
still doesn't resolve the misunderstanding, you can ask for mediation by
the bug bounty platform or other security engineers on the team.
另一方面，如果您在报告中没有犯错误，但仍然认为他们错误地标记了问题，请发送后续说明为什么您认为该漏洞是安全问题。如果仍然不能解决误解，您可以要求Bug赏金平台或团队中的其他安全工程师进行调解。
Most of the time, it is difficult for others to see the impact of a
vulnerability if it doesn't belong to a well-known bug class. If the
security team dismisses the severity of the reported issue, you should
explain some potential attack scenarios to fully illustrate its impact.
大多数情况下，如果漏洞不属于知名的漏洞类别，其他人很难看到其影响。如果安全团队忽略了所报告问题的严重性，您应该解释一些潜在的攻击情景，以充分说明其影响。
Finally, if you're unhappy with the bounty amount, communicate that
without resentment. Ask for the organization's reasoning behind
assigning that bounty, and explain why you think you deserve a higher
reward. For example, if the person in charge of your report
underestimated the severity of the bug, you can elaborate on the impact
of the issue when you ask for a higher reward. Whatever you do, always
avoid asking for more money without explanation.
最后，如果你对悬赏金额感到不满意，不要带着怨恨沟通。询问组织分配悬赏的理由，并解释为什么你认为自己应该获得更高的奖励。例如，如果负责你报告的人低估了漏洞的严重程度，当你要求更高的奖励时，你可以详细说明问题的影响。无论你做什么，都要避免没有解释地要求更多的钱。
Remember, we all make mistakes. If you believe the person handling your
report mishandled the issue, ask for reconsideration courteously. Once
you've made your case, respect the company's final decision about the
fix and bounty amount.
请记住，我们都会犯错误。如果你认为处理你的报告的人处理了问题，请礼貌地请求重新考虑。一旦你提出了你的要求，尊重公司对修复和赏金数额的最终决定。
### Building a Partnership {#c02.xhtml#h2-123456c01-0012}
The bug bounty journey doesn't stop after you've resolved a report. You
should strive to form long-term partnerships with organizations. This
can [ ]{#c02.xhtml#Page_24 .pagebreak title="24"} help get your reports
resolved more smoothly and might even land you an interview or job
offer. You can form good relationships with companies by respecting
their time and communicating with professionalism.
在解决漏洞报告后，漏洞赏金计划之旅并不会停止。您应该努力与组织建立长期合作关系。这可以帮助您更顺利地解决报告，甚至可能获得面试或工作机会。您可以通过尊重他们的时间并以专业的方式沟通，与公司建立良好的关系。
First, gain respect by always submitting validated reports. Don't break
a company's trust by spamming, pestering them for money, or verbally
abusing the security team. In turn, they'll respect you and prioritize
you as a researcher. Companies often ban hunters who are disrespectful
or unreasonable, so avoid falling into those categories at all costs.
首先，通过始终提交经过验证的报告获得尊重。不要通过垃圾邮件、催要付款或口头虐待安全团队破坏公司的信任。反过来，他们会尊重你并将你视为研究人员的优先考虑对象。公司通常禁止不尊重或不合理的猎人，因此要尽可能避免落入这些类别。
Also learn the communication style of each organization you work with.
How much detail do they expect in their reports? You can learn about a
security team's communication style by reading their publicly disclosed
reports, or by incorporating their feedback about your reports into
future messages. Do they expect lots of photos and videos to document
the bug? Customize your reports to make your reader's job easier.
还要学习与每个你合作的组织的沟通风格。他们期望在报告中看到多少细节？通过阅读他们公开披露的报告或将他们对你的报告的反馈纳入未来的消息中，你可以了解一个安全团队的沟通风格。他们期望看到大量的照片和视频来记录漏洞吗？定制你的报告，使你的读者的工作更轻松。
Finally, make sure you support the security team until they resolve the
issue. Many organizations will pay you a bounty upon report triage, but
please don't bail on the security team after you receive the reward! If
it's requested, provide advice to help mitigate the vulnerability, and
help security teams confirm that the issue has been fixed. Sometimes
organizations will ask you to perform retests for a fee. Always take
that opportunity if you can. You'll not only make money, but also help
companies resolve the issue faster.
最后，确保在安全团队解决问题之前给予他们支持。许多组织会在报告整理后向您支付赏金，但请不要在获得奖励后放弃安全团队！如果需要，提供建议以帮助减轻漏洞，并帮助安全团队确认问题是否已得到解决。有时组织会要求您进行再测试以获取费用。如果可以，一定要抓住这个机会。您不仅可以赚钱，还可以帮助企业更快地解决问题。
## Understanding Why You're Failing {#c02.xhtml#h1-123456c01-0003}
You've poured hours into looking for vulnerabilities and haven't found a
single one. Or you keep submitting reports that get marked informative,
N/A, or duplicate.
你花费了数小时寻找漏洞，但一个都没有找到。或者你持续提交报告，但它们被标记为信息性、不适用或重复。
You've followed all the rules. You've used all the tools. What's going
wrong? What secrets are the leaderboard hackers hiding from you? In this
section, I'll discuss the mistakes that prevent you from succeeding in
bug bounties, and how you can improve.
你已经遵循了所有规则，使用了所有工具。为什么会出错？排行榜黑客隐藏了什么秘密让你无法成功？在本节中，我将讨论阻止您在漏洞赏金任务中取得成功的错误以及您可以如何改进。
### Why You're Not Finding Bugs {#c02.xhtml#h2-123456c01-0013}
If you spend a lot of time in bug bounties and still have trouble
finding bugs, here are some possible reasons.
如果你花费了大量时间在漏洞赏金活动上，仍然很难找到漏洞，以下是可能的原因。
#### You Participate in the Wrong Programs {#c02.xhtml#h3-123456c01-0011}
You might have been targeting the wrong programs all along. Bug bounty
programs aren't created equally, and picking the right one is essential.
Some programs delay fixing bugs because they lack the resources to deal
with reports. Some programs downplay the severity of vulnerabilities to
avoid paying hackers. Finally, other programs restrict their scope to a
small subset of their assets. They run bug bounty programs to gain
positive publicity and don't intend to actually fix vulnerabilities.
Avoid these programs to save yourself the headache.
你可能一直把目标对准了错误的计划。漏洞奖励计划并不一样，选择正确的计划至关重要。某些计划因缺乏处理报告的资源而延迟解决漏洞；一些计划淡化漏洞的严重性以避免支付黑客；最后，其他计划仅针对其资产的一小部分范围运行漏洞奖励计划，以获得正面公众评价，实际上并不打算修复漏洞。避免这些计划以避免麻烦。
[ ]{#c02.xhtml#Page_25 .pagebreak title="25"} You can identify these
programs by reading publicly disclosed reports, analyzing program
statistics on bug bounty platforms, or by talking with other hackers. A
program's stats listed on bug bounty platforms provide a lot of
information on how well a program is executed. Avoid programs with long
response times and programs with low average bounties. Pick targets
carefully, and prioritize companies that invest in their bug bounty
programs.
你可以通过阅读公开的报告、分析漏洞赏金平台上的程序统计数据或与其他黑客交流来识别这些程序。漏洞赏金平台上列出的程序统计数据提供了有关程序执行情况的大量信息。避免长时间响应或平均赏金低的程序。谨慎选择目标，并优先考虑投资于漏洞赏金计划的公司。
#### You Don't Stick to a Program {#c02.xhtml#h3-123456c01-0012}
How long should you target a program? If your answer is a few hours or
days, that's the reason you're not finding anything. Jumping from
program to program is another mistake beginners often make.
你要持续关注一个计划多长时间？如果你的答案是几个小时或几天，那就是你找不到成果的原因。初学者经常犯的另一个错误是频繁跳换计划。
Every bug bounty program has countless bug bounty hunters hacking it.
Differentiate yourself from the competition, or risk not finding
anything! You can differentiate yourself in two ways: dig deep or search
wide. For example, dig deep into a single functionality of an
application to search for complex bugs. Or discover and hack the
lesser-known assets of the company.
每个漏洞赏金计划都有无数的漏洞赏金猎人在攻击它。与竞争对手有所区别，否则会冒着找不到任何东西的风险！你可以通过两种方式区别自己：深入挖掘或广泛搜索。例如，深入挖掘应用程序的单个功能以寻找复杂漏洞。或者发现和攻击公司的较少知名的资产。
Doing these things well takes time. Don't expect to find bugs right away
when you're starting fresh on a program. And don't quit a program if you
can't find bugs on the first day.
做这些事情需要时间。不要期望在刚开始编程时立即发现错误。而且，如果你不能在第一天找到错误，也不要放弃一个程序。
#### You Don't Recon {#c02.xhtml#h3-123456c01-0013}
Jumping into big public programs without performing reconnaissance is
another way to fail at bug bounties. Effective recon, which we discuss
in [ Chapter 5 ]{.xref itemid="xref_target_Chapter 5"} , helps you
discover new attack surfaces: new subdomains, new endpoints, and new
functionality.
不进行侦察就跳入大型公共项目是在漏洞赏金上失败的另一种方式。有效的侦察，我们在第5章中讨论，帮助你发现新的攻击面：新的子域、新的端点和新的功能。
Spending time on recon gives you an incredible advantage over other
hackers, because you'll be the first to notice the bugs on all obscure
assets you discover, giving you better chances of finding bugs that
aren't duplicates.
在侦察上花费时间能让你比其他黑客拥有巨大的优势，因为你会第一个注意到你发现的所有模糊资产上的漏洞，从而更有机会发现不重复的漏洞。
#### You Go for Only Low-Hanging Fruit {#c02.xhtml#h3-123456c01-0014}
Another mistake that beginners often make is to rely on vulnerability