[]{#f04.xhtml}
::: section
# [ ]{#f04.xhtml#Page_xix .pagebreak title="xix"} Foreword {#f04.xhtml#fm-501546f04-0001 .FrontmatterTitle}
Twenty or even ten years ago, hackers like me were arrested for trying
to do good. Today, we are being hired by some of the world's most
powerful organizations.
如今，我们这样的黑客被世界上一些最有权力的组织雇用；而在二十年甚至十年前，我们试图做好事还会被逮捕。
If you're still considering whether or not you are late to the bug
bounty train, know that you're coming aboard at one of the most exciting
times in the industry's history. This community is growing faster than
ever before, as governments are beginning to require that companies host
vulnerability disclosure programs, Fortune 500 companies are building
such policies in droves, and the applications for hacker-powered
security are expanding every day. The value of a human eye will forever
be vital in defending against evolving threats, and the world is
recognizing *us* as the people to provide it.
如果你仍在考虑是否已经错过了漏洞赏金的列车，那么你要知道的是，你正在一个行业历史上最激动人心的时期加入进来。这个社区正在以前所未有的速度增长，随着政府开始要求公司建立漏洞披露计划，财富500强公司正在纷纷制定这样的政策，而基于黑客的安全应用场景也在不断扩大。人眼的价值将永远在防御不断演变的威胁中起着至关重要的作用，世界正在认识到我们是提供这种服务的人。
The beautiful thing about the bug bounty world is that, unlike your
typical nine-to-five job or consultancy gig, it allows you to
participate from wherever you want, whenever you want, and on whatever
type of asset you like! All you need is a decent internet connection, a
nice coffee (or your choice of beverage), some curiosity, and a passion
for breaking things. And not only does it give you the freedom to work
on your own schedule, but the threats are evolving faster than the speed
of innovation, providing ample opportunities to learn, build your
skills, and become an expert in a new area.
漏洞赏金的美妙之处在于，与你通常的九点到五点的工作或咨询差异较大，它让你在任何你想要的时间、任何你想参加的资产上参与其中！你只需要一个良好的互联网连接、一杯美味的咖啡（或你选择的饮料）、一些好奇心和对挑战的激情。不仅给你自由的工作时间表，而且威胁的演变速度比创新的速度更快，为学习、提高技能和成为新领域专家提供了丰富的机会。
If you are interested in gaining real-world hacking experience, the bug
bounty marketplace makes that possible by providing an endless number of
targets owned by giant companies such as Facebook, Google, or Apple! I'm
[ ]{#f04.xhtml#Page_xx .pagebreak title="xx"} not saying that it is an
easy task to find a vulnerability in these companies; nevertheless, bug
bounty programs deliver the platform on which to hunt, and the bug
bounty community pushes you to learn more about new vulnerability types,
grow your skill set, and keep trying even when it gets tough. Unlike
most labs and Capture the Flags (CTFs), bug bounty programs do not have
solutions or a guaranteed vulnerability to exploit. Instead, you'll
always ask yourself whether or not some feature is vulnerable, or if it
can force the application or its functionalities to do things it's not
supposed to. This uncertainty can be daunting, but it makes the thrill
of finding a bug so much sweeter.
如果你对获取真实的黑客经验感兴趣，那么漏洞赏金市场提供了一个无数的目标，这些目标是由像
Facebook、Google 或 Apple
这样的大公司所拥有的！我并不是说在这些公司中找到漏洞是一件容易的事情，然而，漏洞赏金计划提供了一个寻找漏洞的平台，漏洞赏金社区会推动你学习更多的新漏洞类型，增强你的技能，即使遇到困难也要继续尝试。与大多数实验室和
Capture the Flags (CTFs)
不同，漏洞赏金计划没有解决方案或保证可利用的漏洞。相反，你总是会问自己是否某个功能存在漏洞，或者它是否可以迫使应用程序或其功能执行不应该执行的操作。这种不确定性可能令人望而却步，但是它使发现漏洞的乐趣倍感甜蜜。
In this book, Vickie explores a variety of different vulnerability types
to advance your understanding of web application hacking. She covers the
skills that will make you a successful bug bounty hunter, including
step-by-step analyses on how to pick the right program for you, perform
proper reconnaissance, and write strong reports. She provides
explanations for attacks like cross-site scripting, SQL injection,
template injection, and almost any other you need in your toolkit to be
successful. Later on, she takes you beyond the basics of web
applications and introduces topics such as code review, API hacking,
automating your workflow, and fuzzing.
在这本书中，维基探讨了各种不同的漏洞类型，以提高您对网络应用程序攻击的理解。她涵盖了会使您成为一个成功的漏洞赏金猎人所需的技能，包括逐步分析如何选择适合您的程序、进行适当的侦查和撰写强有力的报告。她解释了像跨站脚本、SQL注入、模板注入等攻击，以及您需要的几乎任何其他攻击来让您成功。随后，她将带领您超越Web应用程序的基础知识，介绍代码审查、API攻击、自动化工作流程和模糊测试等主题。
For anyone willing to put in the work, *Bug Bounty Bootcamp* gives you
the foundation you need to make it in bug bounties.
对于任何愿意付出努力的人来说，漏洞赏金训练营为您提供了在漏洞赏金中取得成功所需的基础。
---Ben Sadeghipour
-本·萨德吉普尔
Hacker, Content Creator, and\
Head of Hacker Education at HackerOne
黑客、内容创作者、HackerOne黑客教育主管
:::
[]{#f05.xhtml}
::: {.section .introduction}
# [ ]{#f05.xhtml#Page_xxi .pagebreak title="xxi"} Introduction {#f05.xhtml#fm-501546f05-0001 .FrontmatterTitleIntroduction}
![](image_fi/book_art/chapterart.png)
I still remember the first time I found a high-impact vulnerability. I
had already located a few low-impact bugs in the application I was
testing, including a CSRF, an IDOR, and a few information leaks.
Eventually, I managed to chain these into a full takeover of any account
on the website: I could have logged in as anyone, read anyone's data,
and altered it however I wanted. For an instant, I felt like I had
superpowers.
我仍然记得第一次发现高影响漏洞的时候。在我测试的应用程序中，我已经找到了几个低影响的漏洞，包括CSRF、IDOR和一些信息泄漏。最终，我成功地将它们链接在一起，完全接管了网站上的任何帐户：我可以像任何人一样登录、阅读任何人的数据并随心所欲地更改它。一瞬间，我觉得自己拥有了超能力。
I reported the issue to the company, which promptly fixed the
vulnerability. Hackers are probably the closest thing to superheroes
I've encountered in the real world. They overcome limitations with their
skills to make software programs do much more than they were designed
for, which is what I love about hacking web applications: it's all about
thinking creatively, challenging yourself, and doing more than what
seems possible.
我已向公司报告此问题，公司迅速修复了漏洞。黑客可能是我在现实世界中遇到的最接近超级英雄的人。他们凭借自己的技能克服限制，使软件程序做到比设计更多的事情，这就是我喜欢黑客攻击网站应用程序的原因：这一切都是关于创造性思维，挑战自我，做出超越可能的事情。
[ ]{#f05.xhtml#Page_xxii .pagebreak title="xxii"} Also like superheroes,
ethical hackers help keep society safe. Thousands of data breaches
happen every year in the United States alone. By understanding
vulnerabilities and how they happen, you can use your knowledge for good
to help prevent malicious attacks, protect applications and users, and
make the internet a safer place.
与超级英雄一样，道德黑客有助于保护社会的安全。仅在美国每年就发生数千起数据泄漏事件。通过了解漏洞和其发生原因，您可以将自己的知识用于预防恶意攻击、保护应用程序和用户，使互联网成为更安全的地方。
Not too long ago, hacking and experimenting with web applications were
illegal. But now, thanks to bug bounty programs, you can hack legally;
companies set up bug bounty programs to reward security researchers for
finding vulnerabilities in their applications. *Bug Bounty Bootcamp*
teaches you how to hack web applications and how to do it legally by
participating in these programs. You'll learn how to navigate bug bounty
programs, perform reconnaissance on a target, and identify and exploit
vulnerabilities.
不久之前，黑客和对Web应用程序进行实验都是非法的。但现在，归功于漏洞赏金计划，您可以合法地进行黑客攻击；公司设立漏洞赏金计划来奖励安全研究人员在其应用程序中发现漏洞。漏洞赏金训练营教您如何黑入Web应用程序，并通过参加这些计划合法地进行黑客攻击。您将学习如何使用漏洞赏金计划，对目标进行侦察，并识别和利用漏洞。
## Who This Book Is For {#f05.xhtml#h1-501546f05-0001}
This book will help anyone learn web hacking and bug bounty hunting from
scratch. You might be a student looking to get into web security, a web
developer who wants to understand the security of a website, or an
experienced hacker who wants to understand how to attack web
applications. If you are curious about web hacking and web security,
this book is for you.
这本书将帮助任何人从零开始学习网络黑客和漏洞赏金猎人。你可能是一名想要进入网络安全领域的学生，一名想要了解一个网站安全性的网站开发者，或者一个有经验的黑客想要了解如何攻击Web应用程序。如果你对网络黑客和网络安全感到好奇，这本书适合你。
No technical background is needed to understand and master the material
of this book. However, you will find it useful to understand basic
programming.
阅读本书无需有技术背景。不过，如果您了解基本的编程，将对掌握本书材料有所帮助。
Although this book was written with beginners in mind, advanced hackers
may also find it to be a useful reference. In particular, I discuss
advanced exploitation techniques and useful tips and tricks I've learned
along the way.
尽管本书是针对初学者编写的，但高级黑客也可能会发现它是一本有用的参考书。特别是在讨论高级利用技术和我在学习过程中学到的有用技巧和窍门方面。
## What Is In This Book {#f05.xhtml#h1-501546f05-0002}
*Bug Bounty Bootcamp* covers everything you need to start hacking web
applications and participating in bug bounty programs. This book is
broken into four parts: The Industry, Getting Started, Web
Vulnerabilities, and Expert Techniques.
漏洞赏金训练营覆盖了你开始黑客攻击Web应用程序和参加漏洞赏金计划所需的一切。本书分为四个部分：行业、入门、Web漏洞和专家技巧。
**Part I: The Industry**
第一部分：行业
1.  The first part of the book focuses on the bug bounty industry. [
    Chapter 1: Picking a Bug Bounty Program ]{.xref
    itemid="xref_target_Chapter 1_Picking a Bug Bounty Program"}
    explains the various types of bug bounty programs and how to choose
    one that suits your interests and experience level. [ Chapter 2:
    Sustaining Your Success ]{.xref
    itemid="xref_target_Chapter 2_Sustaining Your Success"} teaches you
    the nontechnical skills you need to succeed in the bug bounty
    industry, like writing a good report, building professional
    relationships, and dealing with conflict and frustration.
**Part II: Getting Started**
第二部分：入门指南
1.  The second part of the book prepares you for web hacking and
    introduces you to the basic technologies and tools you'll need to
    successfully hunt for bugs.
    [ ]{#f05.xhtml#Page_xxiii .pagebreak title="xxiii"} [ Chapter 3: How
    the Internet Works ]{.xref
    itemid="xref_target_Chapter 3_How the Internet Works "} explains the
    basics of internet technologies. It also introduces the internet
    security mechanisms you will encounter, such as session management,
    token-based authentication, and the same-origin policy.
    第三章，"互联网的工作原理"解释了互联网技术的基础知识。它还介绍了您将遇到的互联网安全机制，例如会话管理、基于令牌的身份验证和同源策略。
    [ Chapter 4: Environmental Setup and Traffic Interception ]{.xref
    itemid="xref_target_Chapter 4_Environmental Setup and Traffic Interception"}
    shows you how to set up your hacking environment, configure Burp
    Suite, and effectively utilize Burp Suite's various modules to
    intercept traffic and hunt for bugs.
    第4章：环境设置和流量拦截向您展示如何设置您的黑客环境，配置Burp
    Suite，并有效地利用Burp Suite的各个模块拦截流量并寻找漏洞。
    [ Chapter 5: Web Hacking Reconnaissance ]{.xref
    itemid="xref_target_Chapter 5_Web Hacking Reconnaissance"} details
    the recon strategies you can take to gather information about a
    target. It also includes an introduction to bash scripting and shows
    you how to create an automated recon tool from scratch.
    第5章：Web黑客侦察详细介绍了您可以采用的侦察策略，以收集有关目标的信息。它还包括对bash脚本的介绍，并向您展示如何从头开始创建自动化侦察工具。
**Part III: Web Vulnerabilities**
第三部分：网站漏洞
1.  Then we start hacking! This part, the core of the book, dives into
    the details of specific vulnerabilities. Each chapter is dedicated
    to a vulnerability and explains what causes that vulnerability, how
    to prevent it, and how to find, exploit, and escalate it for maximum
    impact.
    Chapters [ 6 ]{.xref itemid="xref_target_6"} through [ 18 ]{.xref
    itemid="xref_target_18"} discuss common vulnerabilities you are
    likely to encounter in real-life applications, including cross-site
    scripting (XSS), open redirects, clickjacking, cross-site request
    forgery (CSRF), insecure direct object references (IDOR), SQL
    injection, race conditions, server-side request forgery (SSRF),
    insecure deserialization, XML external entity vulnerabilities (XXE),
    template injection, application logic errors and broken access
    control, and remote code execution (RCE).
    第6章到第18章讨论现实应用中可能会遇到的常见漏洞，包括跨站脚本(XSS)、开放式重定向、点击劫持、跨站请求伪造(CSRF)、不安全的直接对象引用(IDOR)、SQL注入、竞态条件、服务器端请求伪造(SSRF)、不安全的反序列化、XML外部实体漏洞(XXE)、模板注入、应用逻辑错误和破损的访问控制，以及远程代码执行(RCE)。
    [ Chapter 19: Same-Origin Policy Vulnerabilities ]{.xref
    itemid="xref_target_Chapter 19_Same-Origin Policy Vulnerabilities"}
    dives into a fundamental defense of the modern internet: the
    same-origin policy. You'll learn about the mistakes developers make
    when building applications to work around the same-origin policy and
    how hackers can exploit these mistakes.
    第19章：同源策略漏洞深入了解了现代互联网的一个基本防御：同源策略。您将会了解到开发人员在构建应用程序以规避同源策略时所犯的错误以及黑客如何利用这些错误。
    [ Chapter 20: Single-Sign-On Security Issues ]{.xref
    itemid="xref_target_Chapter 20_Single-Sign-On Security Issues"}
    discusses the most common ways applications implement single-sign-on
    features, the potential weaknesses of each method, and how you can
    exploit these weaknesses.
    第20章：单点登录安全问题讨论了应用程序实现单点登录功能的最常见方法，每种方法的潜在弱点以及您如何利用这些弱点。
    Finally, [ Chapter 21: Information Disclosure ]{.xref
    itemid="xref_target_Chapter 21_Information Disclosure"} discusses
    several ways of extracting sensitive information from a web
    application.