The IEEE 802.11 is a set of specifications on implementing wireless over
several frequencies. As technology has evolved, so has the need for more
revisions. If you were to go shopping for wireless equipment, you would
see the []{#c06.xhtml#Page_68 .pagebreak title="68"
role="doc-pagebreak"}array of choices you have based on those revisions
of 802.11. Most consumer and enterprise wireless devices conform to
802.11a, 802.11b/g/n, and 802.11ac standards. These standards are better
known as Wi‐Fi. Bluetooth and wireless personal area networks (WPANs)
are specialized wireless technologies, and they are defined by IEEE
802.15.
In [Figure 6.1](#c06.xhtml#c06-fig-0001){#c06.xhtml#R_c06-fig-0001}, you
see a simple wireless topology; you have a laptop, a printer, and a
mobile device all connecting through one wireless access point (WAP) via
a router that connects directly to the Internet service provider (ISP),
giving the end devices access to the Internet all at the same time.
![[**[Figure 6.1](#c06.xhtml#R_c06-fig-0001){#c06.xhtml#c06-fig-0001
role="doc-backlink"}:**]{.figureLabel} Simple star wireless
topology](Images/c06f001.jpg){.center width="627" height="328"}
To best utilize and protect this wireless environment, you need to
understand how it works. If you can control electromagnetic waves, you
can use them to communicate. Information is sent from one component
called a *transmitter* and picked up by another called a *receiver*. The
transmitter sends electrical signals through an antenna to create waves
that spread outward. The receiver with another antenna in the path of
those waves picks up the signal and amplifies it so it can be processed.
A wireless router is simply a router that uses radio waves instead of
cables. It contains a low‐power radio transmitter and receiver, with a
range of about 90 meters or 300 feet, depending on what your walls are
made of. The router can send and receive Internet data to any computer
in your environment that is also equipped with wireless access. Each
computer on the wireless network has to have a transmitter and receiver
in it as well. A router becomes an access point for the Internet,
creating an invisible "cloud" of wireless connectivity called as a
*hotspot*.
There are advantages and disadvantages to communicating wirelessly.
Networks are pretty easy to set up and rather inexpensive, with several
choices of frequencies to communicate over. Disadvantages can include
keeping this communication secure, the range of the wireless devices,
reliability, and, of course, []{#c06.xhtml#Page_69 .pagebreak title="69"
role="doc-pagebreak"}speed. The transmitter and the receiver need to be
on the same frequency, and each 802.11 standard has its own set of pros
and cons. [Table
6.1](#c06.xhtml#c06-tbl-0001){#c06.xhtml#R_c06-tbl-0001} describes the
IEEE 802.11 standards for wireless devices. As with any technology,
wireless devices have evolved to become faster with more range depending
on the standard. 802.11ac is sometimes referred to as Wi‐Fi 5 and is
what most current wireless routers are compliant with. These devices
will have multiple antennas to send and receive data reducing errors and
boosting speed. There is a new Wi‐Fi technology coming in the near
future called 802.11ax or Wi‐Fi 6. 802.11ax will be anywhere from four
to ten times faster than existing Wi‐Fi with wider channels available
and promises to be less congested and improve battery life on mobile
devices since data is transmitted faster.
```{=html}
```
```{=html}
```
[**[Table 6.1](#c06.xhtml#R_c06-tbl-0001){#c06.xhtml#c06-tbl-0001
role="doc-backlink"}:**]{.figureLabel} IEEE 802.11 standards
```{=html}
```
  FEATURE             802.11A    802.11B    802.11G    802.11N     802.11AC
  ------------------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ----------- ------------
  Frequency           5 GHz      2.4 GHz    5 GHz      2.4/5 GHz   5 GHz
  Maximum data rate   54 Mbps    11 Mbps    54 Mbps    600 Mbps    1 Mbps
  Range indoors       100 feet   100 feet   125 feet   225 feet    90 feet
  Range outdoors      400 feet   450 feet   450 feet   825 feet    1,000 feet
```{=html}
```
As with any technology, as it evolves, you will start making decisions
on what scenario is best for you and your organization. There may be
trade‐offs on frequency used, speed, or the range of a device from a
Wi‐Fi hotspot. A hotspot is merely an area with an accessible network.
When building a typical wireless small office or home office (SOHO)
environment, after you identify what technology and design is best for
your situation, you configure the settings of your router using a web
interface. You can select the name of the network you want to use, known
as the *service set identifier* (SSID). You can choose the channel. By
default, most routers use channel 6 or 11. You will also choose security
options, such as setting up your own username and password as well as
encryption.
As a best practice, when you configure security settings on your router,
choose Wi‐Fi Protected Access version 2 (WPA2). WPA2 is the recommended
security standard for Wi‐Fi networks. It can use either TKIP or AES
encryption, depending on the choices you make during setup. AES is
considered more secure.
Another best practice is configuring MAC filtering on your router. This
doesn\'t use a password to authenticate. It uses the MAC address of the
device itself. Each device that connects to a router has its own MAC
address. You can specify which MAC addresses are allowed on your network
as well as set limitations to how many devices can join your network. If
you set up your router to use MAC filtering, one drawback is every time
you need to add a device, you have []{#c06.xhtml#Page_70 .pagebreak
title="70" role="doc-pagebreak"}to grant network permission. You
sacrifice convenience for better protection. After reading this book,
the more advanced user will know how to capture packets, examine the
data, and possibly identify the MAC address of a device in the list of
permitted devices. MAC filtering with WPA2 encryption will be the best
way to protect your data.
:::
::: section
[]{#c06.xhtml#c06-sec-0003}
## inSSIDer {#c06.xhtml#head-2-43}
One of my favorite tools is called inSSIDer by MetaGeek. inSSIDer is a
wireless network scanner. It was meant to replace NetStumbler, which was
a Microsoft Windows Wi‐Fi scanner. There is a free version with limited
features called inSSIDer Lite, and you can download it from
`https://www.metageek.com/products/inssider/free/`.
inSSIDer intercepts information from wireless devices and will report
all of the wireless networks that are nearby. It will report details
such as the SSID of the WAP and what channels the device is using, as
well as signal strength, the physical type of the WAP, if it\'s secured,
and the minimum/maximum data rate. You also get a graph of the WAPs
divided up by channels 2.4 and 5 GHz. In [Figure
6.2](#c06.xhtml#c06-fig-0002){#c06.xhtml#R_c06-fig-0002}, you see that
inSSIDer Lite captures the SSID of the broadcasting router, channel,
signal, 802.11 type, and kind of security that is being used as well as
minimum and maximum data rates.
![[**[Figure 6.2](#c06.xhtml#R_c06-fig-0002){#c06.xhtml#c06-fig-0002
role="doc-backlink"}:**]{.figureLabel} inSSIDer capture of
Wi‐Fi](Images/c06f002.jpg){.center width="747" height="368"}
If you know what is happening around you, you can use this data to fix
problems you might be having or improve your network performance. Most
people will use inSSIDer to pick the best channel that no one else is
using for the best []{#c06.xhtml#Page_71 .pagebreak title="71"
role="doc-pagebreak"}reception and no interference. You can check to see
whether your network is secure and what other networks have been
discovered.
If there is a lot of traffic on wireless devices around you, you will
see this displayed in the visualizations of what channel each access
point is on. They can overlap and basically compete for airspace. Using
inSSIDer, you can make sure your router is using the best channel.
Looking at [Figure 6.2](#c06.xhtml#c06-fig-0002), notice that there is a
router in the 5 GHz channel all the way over to the right that is not
sharing airspace with anyone. Yes, that\'s me.
One issue everyone experiences from time to time are dead spots. They
are one of the most common pain points of Wi‐Fi technology. Depending on
which version of inSSIDer you use, there is an option to change from
Physical to Logical mode. If you change to Physical mode, you can walk
around your work or home environment to evaluate whether your router is
in the correct spot. If signal strength dips below ‐70 dBm, you have a
weak area. If it falls below ‐80 dBm, you have a dead spot.
:::
::: section
[]{#c06.xhtml#c06-sec-0004}
## Wireless Network Watcher {#c06.xhtml#head-2-44}
inSSIDer will help you manage the wireless connections around you for a
stable, reliable connection. Now that you have that stable connection,
you may want to monitor who else is attached to the network you are
connected to. Wireless Network Watcher by NirSoft is a small program
that scans the wireless network you are attached to and displays the
list of all computers and devices that are connected to the same
network. You can download the latest version from
`https://www.nirsoft.net/utils/wireless_network_watcher.html`.
For every computer or network device attached, you will see the IP
address, the MAC address, the company that manufactured the network
interface card, and the computer name. You can take that list and export
the connected devices into an HTML, XML, CSV, or TXT file. You can even
copy the list and paste it into Excel or another spreadsheet application
where you can use tools to list, sort, and pivot the information
depending on the volume of data.
This program works well when hosted on a Windows machine but can find
other platforms such as Linux or Cisco. Wireless Network Watcher will
only find assets connected to the network you are currently connected
to, not other wireless networks. In some cases, if your network adapter
is not found, you can go to Advanced Options and choose the correct
network adapter. Under the View tab, you can add gridlines or shaded
odd/even rows. If you\'re actively monitoring the status of your
wireless networks, you can even have the program beep when a new device
is found. [Figure
6.3](#c06.xhtml#c06-fig-0003){#c06.xhtml#R_c06-fig-0003} shows a list of
IP addresses, the device name, MAC address, and other information
including whether the device is active on the current network.
![[**[Figure 6.3](#c06.xhtml#R_c06-fig-0003){#c06.xhtml#c06-fig-0003
role="doc-backlink"}:**]{.figureLabel} Wireless Network Watcher
capture](Images/c06f003.jpg){.center width="747" height="258"}
[]{#c06.xhtml#Page_72 .pagebreak title="72" role="doc-pagebreak"}In
[Table 6.2](#c06.xhtml#c06-tbl-0002){#c06.xhtml#R_c06-tbl-0002}, there
are command‐line options for scanning and saving in specific file types
while using Wireless Network Watcher.
```{=html}
```
```{=html}
```
[**[Table 6.2](#c06.xhtml#R_c06-tbl-0002){#c06.xhtml#c06-tbl-0002
role="doc-backlink"}:**]{.figureLabel} Wireless Network Watcher
command‐line options
```{=html}
```
  OPTION                     RESULT
  -------------------------- ----------------------------------------------
  `/stext` `  `    Scan the network; save in TXT file
  `/stab` `  `     Scan the network; save in tab‐delimited file
  `/scomma` `  `   Scan the network; save in CSV file
```{=html}
```
:::
::: section
[]{#c06.xhtml#c06-sec-0005}
## Hamachi {#c06.xhtml#head-2-45}
Hamachi by LogMeIn is a cloud‐based, professional‐level application that
allows you to easily create a virtual private network (VPN) in minutes.
A VPN seems complicated, but Hamachi is not. Unlike traditional
software‐based VPNs, Hamachi is on‐demand, giving you secure access
remotely to your business anywhere you have an Internet connection.
Without protection, the information you send will be out in the open,
and anyone interested in intercepting your data can capture it. [Figure
6.4](#c06.xhtml#c06-fig-0004){#c06.xhtml#R_c06-fig-0004} shows an
example of a laptop sending an email using VPN to secure transmission
over the Internet.
![[**[Figure 6.4](#c06.xhtml#R_c06-fig-0004){#c06.xhtml#c06-fig-0004
role="doc-backlink"}:**]{.figureLabel} Securing the transmission of data
using a VPN](Images/c06f004.jpg){.center width="625" height="263"}
[]{#c06.xhtml#Page_73 .pagebreak title="73" role="doc-pagebreak"}Based
on the fact that you are reading this book, I would probably bet you are
the tech support for your friends and family. I\'ve used Hamachi to help
friends who are not technically savvy to install printers, troubleshoot
issues, and share files and games with other friends around the globe.
If you have remote computers that you would like to access, this
software gives you access to that remote machine, imitating a local area
network.
Using Hamachi, you can add friends, family, and mobile employees to a
virtual network where you share resources. Your foundational network
configuration does not change. With the VPN connection, information you
send to your bank, business email, or other sensitive data is protected.
When you use a VPN service, the data is encrypted when it gets to the
Internet. The destination site sees the VPN server as the origin of the
data. It is extremely difficult to identify the source of the data, what
websites you visit, or money you are transferring. The data is
encrypted, so even if it is intercepted, no one gets the raw data.
To use Hamachi to create a VPN, you must first download the executable
file that will allow you to be a client. The term *client* refers to
both the software and any device you\'ve installed the software on. With
the correct permission, your client can become a member of any network.
The client can be used only with a LogMeIn ID that you create as part of
your LogMeIn account when you open and power up the client for the first
time. There is no obligation and no credit card required. This ID
provides a single sign‐on login experience. Once you\'re logged in to
Hamachi, as you see in [Figure
6.5](#c06.xhtml#c06-fig-0005){#c06.xhtml#R_c06-fig-0005}, you have your
IPv4 and IPv6 address.
![[**[Figure 6.5](#c06.xhtml#R_c06-fig-0005){#c06.xhtml#c06-fig-0005
role="doc-backlink"}:**]{.figureLabel} Hamachi VPN management
console](Images/c06f005.jpg){.center width="296" height="463"}
[]{#c06.xhtml#Page_74 .pagebreak title="74" role="doc-pagebreak"}Every
client will have one IPv4 address in the 25.X.X.X range and one IPv6
address. This virtual IP address is globally unique and is used to
access any other Hamachi network. As shown in [Figure
6.6](#c06.xhtml#c06-fig-0006){#c06.xhtml#R_c06-fig-0006}, when you set
up your network, you will have an option to choose Mesh, Hub‐And‐Spoke,
or Gateway.
![[**[Figure 6.6](#c06.xhtml#R_c06-fig-0006){#c06.xhtml#c06-fig-0006
role="doc-backlink"}:**]{.figureLabel} Hamachi network type
options](Images/c06f006.jpg){.center width="458" height="199"}
In a meshed network, every single member of the network is connected to
every other member, which makes it easier to relay data. A mesh topology
can handle high amounts of network traffic since every device is
considered a node. Interconnected devices can transfer data at the same
time, and data moves smoothly, which makes this an ideal choice for
gaming. The hub‐and‐spoke topology provides more control than the meshed
network topology. Hubs are connected to everyone, and you have spokes
connected to hubs but not to each other. This is a typical choice for a
corporate environment where you have workstations connecting to a
server. A gateway network will integrate well with a physical network,
giving members access to the physical network. There will be only one
gateway, and there can many members.