caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/create_scope_op.cc.o  
ptxas warning : Too big maxrregcount value specified 96, will be ignored  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/lengths_reducer_rowwise_8bit_ops.cc.o  
nvcc warning : The 'compute_20', 'sm_20', and 'sm_21' architectures are
deprecated, and may be removed in a future release (Use -Wno-deprecated-gpu-
targets to suppress warning).  
nvlink fatal : Internal error: reference to deleted section  
Makefile:83: recipe for target
'/home/feng/pytorch/build/nccl/obj/collectives/device/devlink.o' failed  
make[5]: *** [/home/feng/pytorch/build/nccl/obj/collectives/device/devlink.o]
Error 1  
Makefile:45: recipe for target 'devicelib' failed  
make[4]: *** [devicelib] Error 2  
Makefile:25: recipe for target 'src.build' failed  
make[3]: *** [src.build] Error 2  
CMakeFiles/nccl_external.dir/build.make:110: recipe for target 'nccl_external-
prefix/src/nccl_external-stamp/nccl_external-build' failed  
make[2]: *** [nccl_external-prefix/src/nccl_external-stamp/nccl_external-
build] Error 2  
CMakeFiles/Makefile2:67: recipe for target 'CMakeFiles/nccl_external.dir/all'
failed  
make[1]: *** [CMakeFiles/nccl_external.dir/all] Error 2  
make[1]: *** Waiting for unfinished jobs....  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/lengths_reducer_ops.cc.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/deform_conv_op.cc.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/gather_ranges_to_dense_op.cc.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/conv_transpose_op_mobile.cc.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/batch_matmul_op.cc.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/crf_viterbi_op.cc.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/thresholded_relu_op.cc.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/replace_nan_op.cc.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/mean_op.cc.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/stylizer_ops.cc.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/is_empty_op.cc.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/channel_stats_op.cc.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/sinusoid_position_encoding_op.cc.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/apmeter_op.cc.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/elementwise_ops.cc.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/key_split_ops.cc.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/square_root_divide_op.cc.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/reduce_ops.cc.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/softmax_shared.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/elementwise_mul_op.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/roi_align_op.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/minmax_gradient_ops.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/deform_conv_gradient_op.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/reduce_front_back_sum_ops.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/transpose_op.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/text_file_reader_utils.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/elu_op.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/reduce_front_back_mean_ops.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/workspace_ops.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/text_file_reader.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/given_tensor_fill_op.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/utility_ops.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/communicator_op.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/find_duplicate_elements_op.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/abs_op.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/cbrt_op.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/batch_box_cox_op.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/sqr_op.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/last_n_window_collector.cc.o  
[ 46%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/tanh_op.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/length_split_op.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/gather_fused_8bit_rowwise_op.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/onnxifi_op.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/logit_op.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/boolean_mask_ops.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/stop_gradient.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/asin_op.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/batch_sparse_to_dense_op.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/channel_shuffle_op.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/counter_ops.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/sinh_op.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/elementwise_mul_gradient_op.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/ngram_ops.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/accuracy_op.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/reduction_ops.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/matmul_op.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/rank_loss_op.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/softplus_op.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/conditional_op.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/loss_op.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/boolean_unmask_ops.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/weighted_multi_sampling_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/fused_rowwise_random_quantization_ops.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/reciprocal_gradient_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/softmax_with_loss_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/numpy_tile_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/piecewise_linear_transform_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/space_batch_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/floor_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/log_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/elementwise_logical_ops.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/elementwise_add_gradient_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/ceil_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/index_hash_ops.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/weighted_sample_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/atomic_ops.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/one_hot_ops.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/elementwise_ops_schema.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/merge_id_lists_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/shape_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/perplexity_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/normalize_l1_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/map_ops.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/concat_split_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/load_save_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/find_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/top_k.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/group_norm_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/spatial_batch_norm_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/tile_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/box_with_nms_limit_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/tan_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/channel_backprop_stats_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/fully_connected_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/zero_gradient_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/stump_func_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/fused_rowwise_8bit_conversion_ops.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/negative_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/softmax_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/half_float_ops.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/ctc_beam_search_decoder_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/given_tensor_byte_string_to_uint8_fill_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/onnx_while_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/negate_gradient_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/pool_gradient_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/flatten_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/elementwise_ops_utils.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/summarize_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/minmax_ops.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/lengths_tile_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/im2col_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/generate_proposals_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/conv_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/stats_ops.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/order_switch_ops.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/reverse_packed_segs_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/norm_planar_yuv_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/exp_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/cos_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/atan_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/ctc_greedy_decoder_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/scale_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/conv_transpose_gradient_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/instance_norm_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/prelu_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object