/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/utils/math_gpu.cu(46): warning:
function "caffe2::math::::SubFunctorcaffe2::float16::operator()" was declared
but never referenced
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/utils/math_gpu.cu(47): warning:
function "caffe2::math::::MulFunctor::operator() [with T=double]" was declared
but never referenced
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/utils/math_gpu.cu(47): warning:
function "caffe2::math::::MulFunctor::operator() [with T=float]" was declared
but never referenced
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/utils/math_gpu.cu(47): warning:
function "caffe2::math::::MulFunctor::operator() [with T=int64_t]" was
declared but never referenced
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/utils/math_gpu.cu(47): warning:
function "caffe2::math::::MulFunctor::operator() [with T=int32_t]" was
declared but never referenced
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/utils/math_gpu.cu(47): warning:
function "caffe2::math::::MulFunctorcaffe2::float16::operator()" was declared
but never referenced
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/utils/math_gpu.cu(48): warning:
function "caffe2::math::::DivFunctor::operator() [with T=double]" was declared
but never referenced
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/utils/math_gpu.cu(48): warning:
function "caffe2::math::::DivFunctor::operator() [with T=float]" was declared
but never referenced
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/utils/math_gpu.cu(48): warning:
function "caffe2::math::::DivFunctor::operator() [with T=int64_t]" was
declared but never referenced
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/utils/math_gpu.cu(48): warning:
function "caffe2::math::::DivFunctor::operator() [with T=int32_t]" was
declared but never referenced
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/utils/math_gpu.cu(48): warning:
function "caffe2::math::::DivFunctorcaffe2::float16::operator()" was declared
but never referenced
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/utils/math_gpu.cu(1659):
warning: function "caffe2::math::::FloatTransform::operator() [with
T=caffe2::float16]" was declared but never referenced
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/utils/math_gpu.cu(1692):
warning: function "caffe2::math::::SqrTransform::operator() [with T=float]"
was declared but never referenced
[ 72%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/core/caffe2_gpu_generated_THCCachingAllocator.cu.o  
[ 72%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/core/caffe2_gpu_generated_context_gpu.cu.o  
[ 72%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/image/caffe2_gpu_generated_transform_gpu.cu.o  
[ 73%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_cube_op.cu.o  
[ 73%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_piecewise_linear_transform_op.cu.o  
[ 73%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_cast_op.cu.o  
[ 73%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_accumulate_op.cu.o  
[ 73%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_elu_op.cu.o  
[ 73%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_gru_unit_op_gpu.cu.o  
[ 73%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_acos_op.cu.o  
[ 73%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_roi_align_op.cu.o  
[ 73%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_cross_entropy_op.cu.o  
[ 73%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_pad_op_gpu.cu.o  
[ 74%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_perplexity_op.cu.o  
[ 74%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_batch_gather_ops.cu.o  
[ 74%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_softmax_ops.cu.o  
[ 74%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_elementwise_ops.cu.o  
[ 74%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_boolean_unmask_ops.cu.o  
[ 74%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_top_k.cu.o  
[ 74%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_lengths_pad_op.cu.o  
[ 74%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_rsqrt_op.cu.o  
[ 74%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_sequence_ops.cu.o  
[ 74%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_normalize_ops.cu.o  
[ 74%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_elementwise_mul_op.cu.o  
[ 75%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_rmac_regions_op.cu.o  
[ 75%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_weighted_sample_op.cu.o  
[ 75%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_relu_op.cu.o  
[ 75%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_utility_ops.cu.o  
[ 75%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_pack_segments.cu.o  
[ 75%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_glu_op.cu.o  
[ 75%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_cosh_op.cu.o  
[ 75%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_instance_norm_op.cu.o  
[ 75%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_channel_shuffle_op_gpu.cu.o  
[ 75%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_transpose_op.cu.o  
[ 76%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_segment_reduction_op_gpu.cu.o  
[ 76%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_slice_op.cu.o  
[ 76%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_floor_op.cu.o  
[ 76%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_roi_align_gradient_op.cu.o  
[ 76%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_sparse_to_dense_op.cu.o  
[ 76%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_loss_op.cu.o  
[ 76%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_tan_op.cu.o  
[ 76%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_sigmoid_op.cu.o  
[ 76%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_resize_op.cu.o  
[ 76%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_unique_ops.cu.o  
[ 77%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_integral_image_op.cu.o  
[ 77%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_channel_backprop_stats_op.cu.o  
[ 77%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_assert_op.cu.o  
[ 77%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_given_tensor_fill_op.cu.o  
[ 77%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_replace_nan_op.cu.o  
[ 77%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_ceil_op.cu.o  
[ 77%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_atan_op.cu.o  
[ 77%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_clip_op.cu.o  
[ 77%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_layer_norm_op.cu.o  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/layer_norm_op.cu(13):
warning: function "caffe2::::SqrTransform::operator() [with T=float]" was
declared but never referenced
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/layer_norm_op.cu: In
function ‘void
caffe2::_GLOBAL__N__48_tmpxft_000021b1_00000000_6_layer_norm_op_cpp1_ii_e8654d12::allocScratchAndReduce(InputIterator_t,
float*, int, int*, caffe2::Tensorcaffe2::CUDAContext _, cudaStream_t) [with
InputIterator_t = const float_ ; cudaStream_t = CUstream_st*]’:  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/layer_norm_op.cu:50:8:
warning: ‘temp_storage_bytes’ may be used uninitialized in this function
[-Wmaybe-uninitialized]  
size_t temp_storage_bytes;  
^  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/layer_norm_op.cu: In
function ‘void
caffe2::_GLOBAL__N__48_tmpxft_000021b1_00000000_6_layer_norm_op_cpp1_ii_e8654d12::allocScratchAndReduce(InputIterator_t,
float*, int, int*, caffe2::Tensorcaffe2::CUDAContext _, cudaStream_t) [with
InputIterator_t = cub::TransformInputIterator ; cudaStream_t = CUstream_st*]’:  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/layer_norm_op.cu:50:8:
warning: ‘temp_storage_bytes’ may be used uninitialized in this function
[-Wmaybe-uninitialized]  
[ 77%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_batch_matmul_op.cu.o  
[ 78%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_leaky_relu_op.cu.o  
[ 78%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_abs_op.cu.o  
[ 78%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_sparse_normalize_op_gpu.cu.o  
[ 78%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_reduction_ops.cu.o  
[ 78%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_max_pool_with_index.cu.o  
[ 78%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_multi_class_accuracy_op.cu.o  
[ 78%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_group_norm_op.cu.o  
[ 78%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_one_hot_ops.cu.o  
[ 78%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_boolean_mask_ops.cu.o  
[ 78%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_channel_stats_op.cu.o  
[ 79%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_relu_n_op.cu.o  
[ 79%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_cbrt_op.cu.o  
[ 79%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_asin_op.cu.o  
[ 79%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_reduce_ops.cu.o  
[ 79%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_filler_op.cu.o  
[ 79%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_enforce_finite_op.cu.o  
[ 79%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_arg_ops.cu.o  
[ 79%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_order_switch_ops.cu.o  
[ 79%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_reduction_front_back_ops.cu.o  
[ 79%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_pow_op.cu.o  
[ 79%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_accuracy_op.cu.o  
[ 80%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_prelu_op.cu.o  
[ 80%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_mem_query_op.cu.o  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/mem_query_op.cu(9):
warning: function "caffe2::::GetGPUMemoryUsageOp::GetGPUMemoryUsageOp(const
caffe2::OperatorDef &, caffe2::Workspace *)" was declared but never referenced
[ 80%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_lp_pool_op.cu.o  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/lp_pool_op.cu(24):
warning: function "caffe2::::cuda_pow(T, T) [with T=double]" was declared but
never referenced
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/lp_pool_op.cu(33):
warning: function "caffe2::::cuda_abs(T) [with T=double]" was declared but
never referenced
[ 80%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_deform_conv_op.cu.o  
[ 80%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_cos_op.cu.o  
[ 80%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_half_float_ops.cu.o  
[ 80%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_ensure_cpu_output_op.cu.o  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/ensure_cpu_output_op.h(28):
warning: statement is unreachable  
detected during:  
implicit generation of "caffe2::EnsureCPUOutputOp::~EnsureCPUOutputOp() [with
Context=caffe2::CUDAContext]"  
(15): here  
instantiation of class "caffe2::EnsureCPUOutputOp [with
Context=caffe2::CUDAContext]"  
(15): here  
instantiation of "caffe2::EnsureCPUOutputOp::EnsureCPUOutputOp(const
caffe2::OperatorDef &, caffe2::Workspace *) [with