I'm a mathematician trying to plot several distributions (notably in this case
Gamma and truncated Normal) in order to do some basic notebook-style
exploration for different parameter choices. I first started with truncated
normal, and after over half an hour, I still could not get
scipy.stats.truncnorm to plot a simple normal distribution with mean = 18,
standard distribution = 1.5, but truncated at 12 and 24. This includes after
trying to follow the formula in the documentation for a and b - the behavior
was always surprising, typically cutting the distribution in half and throwing
it's support way beyond 24. I finally settled for just plotting a regular
normal distribution when I couldn't get it to work.
Now I'm messing around with the gamma distribution, and the API is again
surprising. I would suggest that in the spirit of "batteries included", the
user shouldn't have to do the sort of computations described in
http://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/tutorial/stats.html, shape parameter
section, just to use the gamma distribution with its two typical parameters (k
and theta, or alpha and beta, it doesn't matter - they are easy to translate
between) as described on wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gamma_distribution.
My request is that these standardized functions which lack a typical, full
parameterization expose some kind of API allowing the user to specify all
their typical parameters directly and get back a distribution with no further
work required.