Context=caffe2::CUDAContext]"  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/core/registry.h(131): here  
instantiation of "ObjectPtrType caffe2::Registerer::DefaultCreator(Args...) [with SrcType=std::string,
ObjectPtrType=std::unique_ptr, Args=,
DerivedType=caffe2::EnsureCPUOutputOpcaffe2::CUDAContext]"  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/ensure_cpu_output_op.cu(8):
here
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/ensure_cpu_output_op.h(28):
warning: statement is unreachable
[ 80%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_mean_op.cu.o  
[ 80%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_sinh_op.cu.o  
[ 80%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_moments_op.cu.o  
[ 81%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_roi_pool_op.cu.o  
[ 81%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_tanh_op.cu.o  
[ 81%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_roi_align_rotated_gradient_op.cu.o  
[ 81%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_softplus_op.cu.o  
[ 81%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_cosine_embedding_criterion_op.cu.o  
[ 81%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_swish_op.cu.o  
[ 81%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_roi_align_rotated_op.cu.o  
[ 81%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_lstm_unit_op_gpu.cu.o  
[ 81%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_logit_op.cu.o  
[ 81%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_elementwise_div_op.cu.o  
[ 82%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_thresholded_relu_op.cu.o  
[ 82%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_reverse_packed_segs_op.cu.o  
[ 82%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_find_op.cu.o  
[ 82%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_softsign_op.cu.o  
[ 82%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_tile_op.cu.o  
[ 82%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_sin_op.cu.o  
[ 82%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_pool_op.cu.o  
[ 82%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_summarize_op.cu.o  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/summarize_op.cu(37):
warning: function "caffe2::::summary_stats_unary_op::operator() [with
T=float]" was declared but never referenced
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/summarize_op.cu(57):
warning: function "caffe2::::summary_stats_binary_op::operator() [with
T=float]" was declared but never referenced
[ 82%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_dropout_op.cu.o  
[ 82%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_margin_ranking_criterion_op.cu.o  
[ 83%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_stump_func_op.cu.o  
[ 83%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_selu_op.cu.o  
[ 83%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_elementwise_linear_op.cu.o  
[ 83%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_space_batch_op_gpu.cu.o  
[ 83%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_local_response_normalization_op.cu.o  
[ 83%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_distance_op.cu.o  
[ 83%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/caffe2_gpu_generated_affine_channel_op.cu.o  
[ 83%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/rnn/caffe2_gpu_generated_recurrent_network_op_gpu.cu.o  
[ 83%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/sgd/caffe2_gpu_generated_fp32_momentum_sgd_op.cu.o  
[ 83%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/sgd/caffe2_gpu_generated_adagrad_op_gpu.cu.o  
[ 84%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/sgd/caffe2_gpu_generated_yellowfin_op_gpu.cu.o  
[ 84%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/sgd/caffe2_gpu_generated_rmsprop_op_gpu.cu.o  
[ 84%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/sgd/caffe2_gpu_generated_adam_op_gpu.cu.o  
[ 84%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/sgd/caffe2_gpu_generated_fp16_momentum_sgd_op.cu.o  
[ 84%] Building NVCC (Device) object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/sgd/caffe2_gpu_generated_lars_op_gpu.cu.o  
Scanning dependencies of target caffe2_gpu  
[ 84%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/contrib/gloo/allreduce_ops_gpu.cc.o  
[ 84%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/contrib/gloo/broadcast_ops_gpu.cc.o  
[ 84%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/contrib/gloo/common_world_ops_gpu.cc.o  
[ 84%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/contrib/nccl/cuda_nccl_gpu.cc.o  
[ 84%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/contrib/nccl/cuda_nccl_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 85%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/core/common_cudnn.cc.o  
[ 85%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/core/event_gpu.cc.o  
[ 85%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/core/common_gpu.cc.o  
[ 85%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/core/blob_serialization_gpu.cc.o  
[ 85%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/core/net_async_dag_gpu.cc.o  
[ 85%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/core/net_async_gpu_thread_pool_gpu.cc.o  
[ 85%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/db/create_db_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 85%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/distributed/file_store_handler_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 85%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/image/image_input_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 85%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/mpi/mpi_ops_gpu.cc.o  
[ 86%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/spatial_batch_norm_op_cudnn.cc.o  
[ 86%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/sigmoid_op_cudnn.cc.o  
[ 86%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/dropout_op_cudnn.cc.o  
[ 86%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/softmax_op_cudnn.cc.o  
[ 86%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/tanh_op_cudnn.cc.o  
[ 86%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/local_response_normalization_op_cudnn.cc.o  
[ 86%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/conv_op_cudnn.cc.o  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/conv_op_cudnn.cc: In
instantiation of ‘bool caffe2::CudnnConvOp::DoRunWithType() [with T_X = float;
T_W = float; T_B = float; T_Y = float]’:  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/conv_op_cudnn.cc:839:16:
required from here  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/conv_op_cudnn.cc:527:7:
warning: variable ‘group_offset_X’ set but not used [-Wunused-but-set-
variable]  
int group_offset_X = 0, group_offset_Y = 0;  
^  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/conv_op_cudnn.cc:527:27:
warning: variable ‘group_offset_Y’ set but not used [-Wunused-but-set-
variable]  
int group_offset_X = 0, group_offset_Y = 0;  
^  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/conv_op_cudnn.cc: In
instantiation of ‘bool caffe2::CudnnConvOp::DoRunWithType() [with T_X =
caffe2::__f16; T_W = caffe2::__f16; T_B = caffe2::__f16; T_Y =
caffe2::__f16]’:  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/conv_op_cudnn.cc:845:18:
required from here  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/conv_op_cudnn.cc:527:7:
warning: variable ‘group_offset_X’ set but not used [-Wunused-but-set-
variable]  
int group_offset_X = 0, group_offset_Y = 0;  
^  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/conv_op_cudnn.cc:527:27:
warning: variable ‘group_offset_Y’ set but not used [-Wunused-but-set-
variable]  
int group_offset_X = 0, group_offset_Y = 0;  
^  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/conv_op_cudnn.cc: In
instantiation of ‘bool caffe2::CudnnConvGradientOp::DoRunWithType() [with T_X
= float; T_DY = float; T_W = float; T_B = float; T_DX = float; T_DW = float;
T_DB = float]’:  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/conv_op_cudnn.cc:1355:16:
required from here  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/conv_op_cudnn.cc:873:7:
warning: variable ‘group_offset_X’ set but not used [-Wunused-but-set-
variable]  
int group_offset_X = 0, group_offset_Y = 0;  
^  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/conv_op_cudnn.cc:873:27:
warning: variable ‘group_offset_Y’ set but not used [-Wunused-but-set-
variable]  
int group_offset_X = 0, group_offset_Y = 0;  
^  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/conv_op_cudnn.cc: In
instantiation of ‘bool caffe2::CudnnConvGradientOp::DoRunWithType() [with T_X
= caffe2::__f16; T_DY = caffe2::__f16; T_W = caffe2::__f16; T_B =
caffe2::__f16; T_DX = caffe2::__f16; T_DW = caffe2::__f16; T_DB =
caffe2::__f16]’:  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/conv_op_cudnn.cc:1364:18:
required from here  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/conv_op_cudnn.cc:873:7:
warning: variable ‘group_offset_X’ set but not used [-Wunused-but-set-
variable]  
int group_offset_X = 0, group_offset_Y = 0;  
^  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/conv_op_cudnn.cc:873:27:
warning: variable ‘group_offset_Y’ set but not used [-Wunused-but-set-
variable]  
int group_offset_X = 0, group_offset_Y = 0;  
^  
[ 86%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/transpose_op_cudnn.cc.o  
[ 86%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/conv_transpose_op_cudnn.cc.o  
[ 86%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/affine_channel_op_cudnn.cc.o  
[ 87%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/relu_op_cudnn.cc.o  
[ 87%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/elu_op_cudnn.cc.o  
[ 87%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/conv_op_cache_cudnn.cc.o  
[ 87%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/while_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 87%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/sqrt_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 87%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/exp_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 87%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/tensor_protos_db_input_gpu.cc.o  
[ 87%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/utility_ops_gpu.cc.o  
[ 87%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/negative_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 87%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/locally_connected_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 88%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/expand_squeeze_dims_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 88%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/load_save_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 88%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/concat_split_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 88%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/sqr_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 88%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/conv_transpose_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 88%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/expand_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 88%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/conv_op_shared_gpu.cc.o  
[ 88%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/do_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 88%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/im2col_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 88%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/communicator_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 89%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/if_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 89%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/reshape_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 89%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/log_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 89%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/counter_ops_gpu.cc.o  
[ 89%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2_gpu.dir/operators/scale_op_gpu.cc.o  
[ 89%] Building CXX object