nvcc warning : The 'compute_20', 'sm_20', and 'sm_21' architectures are
deprecated, and may be removed in a future release (Use -Wno-deprecated-gpu-
targets to suppress warning).  
[ 28%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/DLConvertor.cpp.o  
[ 28%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/TensorUtils.cpp.o  
[ 28%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/CPUGenerator.cpp.o  
[ 28%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/TensorGeometry.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/UndefinedType.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/Utils.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/Context.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/CPUGeneral.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/CPUTypeDefault.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/SparseTensorImpl.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/ExpandUtils.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/detail/ComplexHooksInterface.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/detail/CPUGuardImpl.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/detail/CUDAHooksInterface.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/cpu/FlushDenormal.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/core/Storage.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/core/context_base.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/core/thread_pool.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/core/ATenCoreTest.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/core/StorageImpl.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/core/Formatting.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/core/LegacyTypeDispatch.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/core/register_symbols.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/core/VariableHooksInterface.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/core/Tensor.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/core/interned_strings.cpp.o  
[ 30%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/core/TensorOptions.cpp.o  
[ 30%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/core/Range.cpp.o  
[ 30%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/core/ivalue.cpp.o  
[ 30%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/core/Allocator.cpp.o  
[ 30%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/core/ATenGeneral.cpp.o  
[ 30%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/core/UndefinedTensorImpl.cpp.o  
[ 30%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/core/Scalar.cpp.o  
[ 30%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/core/blob.cpp.o  
[ 30%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/core/intrusive_ptr.cpp.o  
[ 30%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/core/TensorImpl.cpp.o  
[ 30%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/core/UniqueVoidPtr.cpp.o  
[ 30%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/core/type.cpp.o  
[ 30%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/core/OptionsGuard.cpp.o  
[ 30%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/Embedding.cpp.o  
[ 30%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/SoftMax.cpp.o  
ptxas warning : Too big maxrregcount value specified 96, will be ignored  
[ 30%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/DispatchStub.cpp.o  
[ 30%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/Dropout.cpp.o  
[ 30%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/TensorCompare.cpp.o  
[ 30%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/LinearAlgebra.cpp.o  
[ 30%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/GridSampler.cpp.o  
[ 30%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/ReduceOps.cpp.o  
[ 31%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/UnaryOps.cpp.o  
[ 31%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/Linear.cpp.o  
nvcc warning : The 'compute_20', 'sm_20', and 'sm_21' architectures are
deprecated, and may be removed in a future release (Use -Wno-deprecated-gpu-
targets to suppress warning).  
[ 31%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/Indexing.cpp.o  
[ 31%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/PixelShuffle.cpp.o  
Compiling all_gather.cu >
/home/feng/pytorch/build/nccl/obj/collectives/device/all_gather_sum.o  
nvcc warning : The 'compute_20', 'sm_20', and 'sm_21' architectures are
deprecated, and may be removed in a future release (Use -Wno-deprecated-gpu-
targets to suppress warning).  
[ 31%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/TensorIterator.cpp.o  
[ 31%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/LegacyBridge.cpp.o  
[ 31%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/TypeProperties.cpp.o  
[ 31%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/Copy.cpp.o  
[ 31%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/Loss.cpp.o  
[ 31%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/EmbeddingBag.cpp.o  
[ 31%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/Normalization.cpp.o  
[ 31%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/WeightNorm.cpp.o  
[ 31%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/Resize.cpp.o  
[ 31%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/Convolution.cpp.o  
ptxas warning : Too big maxrregcount value specified 96, will be ignored  
[ 31%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/RoiPooling.cpp.o  
[ 31%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/PackedSequence.cpp.o  
[ 31%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/LegacyDefinitions.cpp.o  
nvcc warning : The 'compute_20', 'sm_20', and 'sm_21' architectures are
deprecated, and may be removed in a future release (Use -Wno-deprecated-gpu-
targets to suppress warning).  
[ 31%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/Distance.cpp.o  
Compiling reduce_scatter.cu >
/home/feng/pytorch/build/nccl/obj/collectives/device/reduce_scatter_sum.o  
nvcc warning : The 'compute_20', 'sm_20', and 'sm_21' architectures are
deprecated, and may be removed in a future release (Use -Wno-deprecated-gpu-
targets to suppress warning).  
[ 31%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/TensorFactories.cpp.o  
[ 31%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/ConvolutionTBC.cpp.o  
[ 31%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/SummaryOps.cpp.o  
[ 31%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/TensorTransformations.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/Unique.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/TensorIteratorReduce.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/Pooling.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/Distributions.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/SpectralOps.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/Memory.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/TensorProperties.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/Scalar.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/TensorShape.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/BinaryOps.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/Activation.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/LossCTC.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/RNN.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/ConstantPadNd.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/TensorConversions.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/BatchLinearAlgebra.cpp.o  
ptxas warning : Too big maxrregcount value specified 96, will be ignored  
[ 32%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/sparse/SparseTensorMath.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/sparse/SparseTensor.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/mkl/LinearAlgebra.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/native/mkl/SpectralOps.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/native/mkldnn/Conv.cpp.o  
[ 32%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/CPUByteType.cpp.o  
[ 33%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/CPUCharType.cpp.o  
[ 33%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/CPUCopy.cpp.o  
[ 33%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/CPUDoubleType.cpp.o  
[ 33%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/CPUFloatType.cpp.o  
Compiling all_reduce.cu >
/home/feng/pytorch/build/nccl/obj/collectives/device/all_reduce_prod.o  
nvcc warning : The 'compute_20', 'sm_20', and 'sm_21' architectures are
deprecated, and may be removed in a future release (Use -Wno-deprecated-gpu-
targets to suppress warning).  
[ 33%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/CPUHalfType.cpp.o  
[ 33%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/CPUIntType.cpp.o  
[ 33%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/CPULongType.cpp.o  
[ 33%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/CPUShortType.cpp.o  
[ 33%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/RegisterCPU.cpp.o  
[ 33%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/SparseCPUByteType.cpp.o  
[ 33%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/SparseCPUCharType.cpp.o  
[ 33%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/SparseCPUDoubleType.cpp.o  
[ 33%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/SparseCPUFloatType.cpp.o  
[ 33%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/SparseCPUIntType.cpp.o  
[ 33%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/SparseCPULongType.cpp.o  
[ 33%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/ATen/SparseCPUShortType.cpp.o  
[ 33%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/ATen/TypeDefault.cpp.o  
[ 33%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/TH/THGeneral.cpp.o  
[ 33%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/TH/THAllocator.cpp.o  
[ 33%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/TH/THSize.cpp.o  
[ 33%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/TH/THStorageFunctions.cpp.o  
[ 34%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/**/aten/src/TH/THTensor.cpp.o  
[ 34%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/
**/aten/src/TH/THTensorCopy.cpp.o  