modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/convert_scale.dispatch.cpp.o  
[ 23%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/copy.cpp.o  
[ 23%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/count_non_zero.dispatch.cpp.o  
[ 24%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/cuda_gpu_mat.cpp.o  
[ 24%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/cuda_gpu_mat_nd.cpp.o  
[ 24%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/cuda_host_mem.cpp.o  
[ 24%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/cuda_info.cpp.o  
[ 24%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/cuda_stream.cpp.o  
[ 24%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/datastructs.cpp.o  
[ 24%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/directx.cpp.o  
[ 24%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/downhill_simplex.cpp.o  
[ 24%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/dxt.cpp.o  
[ 24%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/gl_core_3_1.cpp.o  
[ 24%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/glob.cpp.o  
[ 24%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/hal_internal.cpp.o  
[ 24%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/kmeans.cpp.o  
[ 24%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/lapack.cpp.o  
[ 24%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/lda.cpp.o  
[ 24%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/logger.cpp.o  
[ 25%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/lpsolver.cpp.o  
[ 25%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/lut.cpp.o  
[ 25%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/mathfuncs.cpp.o  
[ 25%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/mathfuncs_core.dispatch.cpp.o  
[ 25%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/matmul.dispatch.cpp.o  
[ 25%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/matrix.cpp.o  
[ 25%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/matrix_c.cpp.o  
[ 25%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/matrix_decomp.cpp.o  
[ 25%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/matrix_expressions.cpp.o  
[ 25%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/matrix_iterator.cpp.o  
[ 25%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/matrix_operations.cpp.o  
[ 25%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/matrix_sparse.cpp.o  
[ 25%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/matrix_transform.cpp.o  
[ 25%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/matrix_wrap.cpp.o  
[ 25%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/mean.dispatch.cpp.o  
[ 26%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/merge.dispatch.cpp.o  
[ 26%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/minmax.cpp.o  
[ 26%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/norm.cpp.o  
[ 26%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/ocl.cpp.o  
[ 26%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/opencl/runtime/opencl_clblas.cpp.o  
[ 26%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/opencl/runtime/opencl_clfft.cpp.o  
[ 26%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/opencl/runtime/opencl_core.cpp.o  
[ 26%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/opengl.cpp.o  
[ 26%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/out.cpp.o  
[ 26%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/ovx.cpp.o  
[ 26%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/parallel.cpp.o  
[ 26%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/parallel/parallel.cpp.o  
[ 26%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/parallel/parallel_openmp.cpp.o  
[ 26%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/parallel/parallel_tbb.cpp.o  
[ 26%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/parallel_impl.cpp.o  
[ 26%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/pca.cpp.o  
[ 27%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/persistence.cpp.o  
[ 27%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/persistence_base64_encoding.cpp.o  
[ 27%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/persistence_json.cpp.o  
[ 27%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/persistence_types.cpp.o  
[ 27%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/persistence_xml.cpp.o  
[ 27%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/persistence_yml.cpp.o  
[ 27%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/rand.cpp.o  
[ 27%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/softfloat.cpp.o  
[ 27%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/split.dispatch.cpp.o  
[ 27%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/stat.dispatch.cpp.o  
[ 27%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/stat_c.cpp.o  
[ 27%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/stl.cpp.o  
[ 27%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/sum.dispatch.cpp.o  
[ 27%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/system.cpp.o  
[ 27%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/tables.cpp.o  
[ 28%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/trace.cpp.o  
[ 28%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/types.cpp.o  
[ 28%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/umatrix.cpp.o  
[ 28%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/utils/datafile.cpp.o  
[ 28%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/utils/filesystem.cpp.o  
[ 28%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/utils/logtagconfigparser.cpp.o  
[ 28%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/utils/logtagmanager.cpp.o  
[ 28%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/utils/samples.cpp.o  
[ 28%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/src/va_intel.cpp.o  
[ 28%] Processing OpenCL kernels (core)  
[ 28%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/stat.sse4_2.cpp.o  
[ 28%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/mathfuncs_core.avx.cpp.o  
[ 28%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/mathfuncs_core.avx2.cpp.o  
[ 28%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/stat.avx2.cpp.o  
[ 28%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/arithm.avx2.cpp.o  
[ 28%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/convert.avx2.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/convert_scale.avx2.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/count_non_zero.avx2.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/matmul.avx2.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/mean.avx2.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/merge.avx2.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/split.avx2.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/sum.avx2.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/matmul.avx512_skx.cpp.o  
\--
/Users/igla/Downloads/opencv-4.5.5_build/modules/core/opencl_kernels_core.hpp
contains the same content  
[ 29%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_core.dir/opencl_kernels_core.cpp.o  
[ 29%] Linking C static library ../lib/liblibpng.a  
[ 29%] Built target libpng  
[ 30%] Linking CXX static library ../lib/liblibtiff.a  
/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/usr/bin/ranlib: file:
../lib/liblibtiff.a(tif_jbig.c.o) has no symbols  
/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/usr/bin/ranlib: file:
../lib/liblibtiff.a(tif_jpeg_12.c.o) has no symbols  
/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/usr/bin/ranlib: file:
../lib/liblibtiff.a(tif_lzma.c.o) has no symbols  
/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/usr/bin/ranlib: file:
../lib/liblibtiff.a(tif_ojpeg.c.o) has no symbols  
/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/usr/bin/ranlib: file:
../lib/liblibtiff.a(tif_pixarlog.c.o) has no symbols  
/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/usr/bin/ranlib: file:
../lib/liblibtiff.a(tif_webp.c.o) has no symbols  
/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/usr/bin/ranlib: file:
../lib/liblibtiff.a(tif_zstd.c.o) has no symbols  
/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/usr/bin/ranlib: file:
../lib/liblibtiff.a(tif_jbig.c.o) has no symbols  
/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/usr/bin/ranlib: file:
../lib/liblibtiff.a(tif_jpeg_12.c.o) has no symbols  
/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/usr/bin/ranlib: file:
../lib/liblibtiff.a(tif_lzma.c.o) has no symbols  
/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/usr/bin/ranlib: file:
../lib/liblibtiff.a(tif_ojpeg.c.o) has no symbols  
/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/usr/bin/ranlib: file:
../lib/liblibtiff.a(tif_pixarlog.c.o) has no symbols  
/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/usr/bin/ranlib: file:
../lib/liblibtiff.a(tif_webp.c.o) has no symbols  
/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/usr/bin/ranlib: file:
../lib/liblibtiff.a(tif_zstd.c.o) has no symbols  
[ 30%] Built target libtiff  
[ 30%] Built target gen_opencv_python_source  
SKIP:AsyncArray cv::dnn::Net::forwardAsync(String outputName = String()) due
to RET type AsyncArray  
SKIP:void cv::dnn::Net::forward(vector_vector_Mat& outputBlobs, vector_String
outBlobNames) due to ARG type vector_vector_Mat/O  
SKIP:void cv::dnn::Net::getLayersShapes(vector_MatShape netInputShapes,
vector_int& layersIds, vector_vector_MatShape& inLayersShapes,
vector_vector_MatShape& outLayersShapes) due to ARG type
vector_vector_MatShape/O  
SKIP:void cv::dnn::Net::getLayersShapes(MatShape netInputShape, vector_int&
layersIds, vector_vector_MatShape& inLayersShapes, vector_vector_MatShape&
outLayersShapes) due to ARG type vector_vector_MatShape/O  
/Users/igla/Downloads/opencv-4.5.5/modules/java/generator/../generator/gen_java.py:578:
UnicodeWarning: Unicode equal comparison failed to convert both arguments to
Unicode - interpreting them as being unequal  
if content == buf:  
SKIP:cv::BOWImgDescriptorExtractor::BOWImgDescriptorExtractor(Ptr_DescriptorExtractor
dextractor, Ptr_DescriptorMatcher dmatcher) due to ARG type
Ptr_DescriptorExtractor/I  
SKIP:void cv::DescriptorMatcher::read(FileNode arg1) due to ARG type
FileNode/I  
SKIP:void cv::DescriptorMatcher::write(Ptr_FileStorage fs, String name =
String()) due to ARG type Ptr_FileStorage/I  
SKIP:void cv::Feature2D::read(FileNode arg1) due to ARG type FileNode/I  
SKIP:void cv::Feature2D::write(Ptr_FileStorage fs, String name = String()) due
to ARG type Ptr_FileStorage/I  
SKIP:uchar SimpleBlobDetector_Params::blobColor due to RET type uchar  