This is a weird bug that I have not been able to test, due to the unusual
circumstances it appears. I also haven't been able to find mention of it
elsewhere, so I'm stuck reporting it.
I was teaching a class where the projector screen was being used as a second
monitor, and not duplicating the laptop screen. When I plot anything with
matplotlib, it works just fine when it appears on the laptop screen. When I
move the plot to the projector screen, the plot disappears... at about 75% on
the projector screen, you can see the plot... but any more than that, the plot
disappears. What's left is a blank window (i.e. what it looks like when you
clear a plot). It has happened on every plot I've tried the past two weeks, at
two different institutions.
To reproduce this bug, you'll need a second monitor. I've had overhead
projectors only, but will try a second monitor shortly. I have seen the bug
using matplotlib 2.0.0, python 2.7.13, and macOS Sierra 10.12.3. Any plot
works, so `plot(x)` should do it, when you drag the plot onto the second
monitor. Displaying a plot worked as expected previously, however, this is my
first attempt displaying a plot using a second monitor with sierra. I
installed matplotlib with macports, if that matters, and I'm using the
`MacOSX` backend.
If I see the same effect on a second monitor (an actual monitor, not a
projector), then I can test some variants. I have the opportunity today to try
some other combinations of python and backend, and will update this issue
accordingly.