[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/moments_op.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/sparse_to_dense_op.cc.o  
[ 47%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/roi_align_rotated_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/minmax_gradient_ops.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/stylizer_ops.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/conv_transpose_gradient_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/filler_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/swish_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/pad_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/mean_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/sqr_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/channel_shuffle_op.cc.o  
[ 48%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/pow_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/rowmul_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/piecewise_linear_transform_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/conv_transpose_op_mobile.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/sigmoid_gradient_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/sparse_normalize_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/cosine_embedding_criterion_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/conv_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/ngram_ops.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/tanh_gradient_op.cc.o  
[ 49%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/rank_loss_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/summarize_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/pool_gradient_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/free_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/perplexity_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/index_hash_ops.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/conditional_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/batch_sparse_to_dense_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/affine_channel_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/lengths_reducer_fused_8bit_rowwise_ops.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/find_op.cc.o  
[ 50%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/boolean_unmask_ops.cc.o  
[ 51%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/text_file_reader_utils.cc.o  
[ 51%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/elementwise_ops_schema.cc.o  
[ 51%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/stats_ops.cc.o  
[ 51%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/lstm_unit_op.cc.o  
[ 51%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/cosh_op.cc.o  
[ 51%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/replace_nan_op.cc.o  
[ 51%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/margin_ranking_criterion_op.cc.o  
[ 51%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/normalize_l1_op.cc.o  
[ 51%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/elementwise_sub_op.cc.o  
[ 51%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/pool_op.cc.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/flexible_top_k.cc.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/weighted_multi_sampling_op.cc.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/variable_length_sequence_padding.cc.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/leaky_relu_op.cc.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/loss_op.cc.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/conv_op_shared.cc.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/channel_stats_op.cc.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/conv_op_eigen.cc.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/weighted_sample_op.cc.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/reverse_packed_segs_op.cc.o  
[ 53%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/last_n_window_collector.cc.o  
[ 53%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/batch_matmul_op.cc.o  
[ 53%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/enforce_finite_op.cc.o  
[ 53%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/numpy_tile_op.cc.o  
[ 53%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/collect_and_distribute_fpn_rpn_proposals_op.cc.o  
[ 53%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/onnxifi_op.cc.o  
[ 53%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/tanh_op.cc.o  
[ 53%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/local_response_normalization_op.cc.o  
[ 53%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/sqrt_op.cc.o  
[ 53%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/order_switch_ops.cc.o  
[ 54%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/elementwise_ops.cc.o  
[ 54%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/prepend_dim_op.cc.o  
[ 54%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/one_hot_ops.cc.o  
[ 54%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/cast_op.cc.o  
[ 54%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/transpose_op.cc.o  
[ 54%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/asin_op.cc.o  
[ 54%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/utility_ops.cc.o  
[ 54%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/feature_maps_ops.cc.o  
[ 54%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/lp_pool_op.cc.o  
[ 54%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/elementwise_logical_ops.cc.o  
[ 55%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/pack_segments.cc.o  
[ 55%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/norm_planar_yuv_op.cc.o  
[ 55%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/pack_rnn_sequence_op.cc.o  
[ 55%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/sigmoid_op.cc.o  
[ 55%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/elementwise_linear_op.cc.o  
[ 55%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/deform_conv_gradient_op.cc.o  
[ 55%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/reservoir_sampling.cc.o  
[ 55%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/stump_func_op.cc.o  
[ 55%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/relu_op.cc.o  
[ 55%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/atomic_ops.cc.o  
[ 56%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/stop_gradient.cc.o  
[ 56%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/relu_n_op.cc.o  
[ 56%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/string_ops.cc.o  
[ 56%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/h_softmax_op.cc.o  
[ 56%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/log_op.cc.o  
[ 56%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/im2col_op.cc.o  
[ 56%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/tt_linear_op.cc.o  
[ 56%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/arg_ops.cc.o  
[ 56%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/ceil_op.cc.o  
[ 56%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/conv_gradient_op.cc.o  
[ 56%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/accuracy_op.cc.o  
[ 57%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/prelu_op.cc.o  
[ 57%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/softsign_op.cc.o  
[ 57%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/lengths_reducer_ops.cc.o  
[ 57%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/generate_proposals_op.cc.o  
In file included from
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/generate_proposals_op.cc:2:0:  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/generate_proposals_op_util_boxes.h:
In function ‘caffe2::EArrXXt caffe2::utils::bbox_transform_rotated(const
Eigen::ArrayBase&, const Eigen::ArrayBase&, const std::vector&, float, bool,
int, int)’:  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/generate_proposals_op_util_boxes.h:110:26:
warning: typedef ‘using EArrX = caffe2::EArrXt’ locally defined but not used
[-Wunused-local-typedefs]  
using EArrX = EArrXt;  
^  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/generate_proposals_op_util_boxes.h:
In function ‘std::vector caffe2::utils::filter_boxes_rotated(const
Eigen::ArrayBase&, double, const Array3f&)’:  
/home/chandu/workspace/tracking/pytorch/caffe2/operators/generate_proposals_op_util_boxes.h:271:26:
warning: typedef ‘using EArrX = caffe2::EArrXt’ locally defined but not used
[-Wunused-local-typedefs]  
using EArrX = EArrXt;  
^  
[ 57%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/partition_ops.cc.o  
[ 57%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/zero_gradient_op.cc.o  
[ 57%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/fused_rowwise_8bit_conversion_ops.cc.o  
[ 57%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/negate_gradient_op.cc.o  
[ 57%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/multi_class_accuracy_op.cc.o  
[ 57%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/elementwise_sub_gradient_op.cc.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/elementwise_mul_gradient_op.cc.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/minmax_ops.cc.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/normalize_op.cc.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/sequence_ops.cc.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/cos_op.cc.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/gru_unit_op.cc.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/create_scope_op.cc.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/rsqrt_op.cc.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/batch_gather_ops.cc.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/do_op.cc.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/merge_id_lists_op.cc.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/text_file_reader.cc.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/softmax_shared.cc.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/instance_norm_gradient_op.cc.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/roi_align_rotated_gradient_op.cc.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/matmul_op.cc.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/elementwise_mul_op.cc.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/spatial_softmax_with_loss_op.cc.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/roi_align_op.cc.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/cbrt_op.cc.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/given_tensor_fill_op.cc.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/selu_op.cc.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/assert_op.cc.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/expand_op.cc.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/remove_data_blocks_op.cc.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/load_save_op.cc.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/negative_op.cc.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object
caffe2/CMakeFiles/caffe2.dir/operators/locally_connected_op.cc.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object