### System info
  * Playwright Version: [v1.31]
  * Operating System: [ Windows 11, Docker Linux alpine]
  * Browser: [ Firefox]
  * Other info:
### Source code
Code sharing is not possible as it's a Restricted project.
**PS;** : I tried multiple way of waits (hard, soft) an interaction of
elements, reload of the pages. etc.
Stack Trace  
com.microsoft.playwright.TimeoutError: Error { message='Timeout 30000ms
exceeded. =========================== logs =========================== waiting
for locator("select[id*='expiration']") locator resolved to … attempting click
action waiting for element to be visible, enabled and stable element is
visible, enabled and stable scrolling into view if needed done scrolling
performing click action
============================================================
name='TimeoutError stack='TimeoutError: Timeout 30000ms exceeded.
=========================== logs =========================== waiting for
locator("select[id*='expiration']") locator resolved to … attempting click
action waiting for element to be visible, enabled and stable element is
visible, enabled and stable scrolling into view if needed done scrolling
performing click action
============================================================ at
ProgressController.run (/tmp/playwright-
java-15622334390061213365/package/lib/server/progress.js:88:26) at Frame.click
(/tmp/playwright-
java-15622334390061213365/package/lib/server/frames.js:1011:23) at
FrameDispatcher.click (/tmp/playwright-
java-15622334390061213365/package/lib/server/dispatchers/frameDispatcher.js:149:30)
at DispatcherConnection.dispatch (/tmp/playwright-
java-15622334390061213365/package/lib/server/dispatchers/dispatcher.js:319:46)
} at com.microsoft.playwright.impl.WaitableResult.get(WaitableResult.java:52)
at com.microsoft.playwright.impl.ChannelOwner.runUntil(ChannelOwner.java:111)
at com.microsoft.playwright.impl.Connection.sendMessage(Connection.java:119)
at
com.microsoft.playwright.impl.ChannelOwner.sendMessage(ChannelOwner.java:102)
at com.microsoft.playwright.impl.FrameImpl.clickImpl(FrameImpl.java:252) at
com.microsoft.playwright.impl.FrameImpl.lambda$click$8(FrameImpl.java:243) at
com.microsoft.playwright.impl.LoggingSupport.lambda$withLogging$0(LoggingSupport.java:36)
at
com.microsoft.playwright.impl.LoggingSupport.withLogging(LoggingSupport.java:47)
at
com.microsoft.playwright.impl.ChannelOwner.withLogging(ChannelOwner.java:87)
at
com.microsoft.playwright.impl.LoggingSupport.withLogging(LoggingSupport.java:35)
at com.microsoft.playwright.impl.FrameImpl.click(FrameImpl.java:243) at
com.microsoft.playwright.impl.LocatorImpl.click(LocatorImpl.java:123) at
com.microsoft.playwright.Locator.click(Locator.java:2183) at
com.esign.utility.CommonUtility.click(CommonUtility.java:35) at
com.esign.steps.PackageSteps.user_enables_TRID_expiration(PackageSteps.java:1775)
at ✽.user enables TRID
expiration(file:///app/src/test/java/com/esign/features/smoke/CreatorUI_TRID.feature:397)
Caused by: com.microsoft.playwright.TimeoutError: Error { message='Timeout
30000ms exceeded. =========================== logs ===========================
waiting for locator("select[id*='expiration']") locator resolved to …
attempting click action waiting for element to be visible, enabled and stable
element is visible, enabled and stable scrolling into view if needed done
scrolling performing click action
============================================================
name='TimeoutError stack='TimeoutError: Timeout 30000ms exceeded.
=========================== logs =========================== waiting for
locator("select[id*='expiration']") locator resolved to … attempting click
action waiting for element to be visible, enabled and stable element is
visible, enabled and stable scrolling into view if needed done scrolling
performing click action
============================================================ at
ProgressController.run (/tmp/playwright-
java-15622334390061213365/package/lib/server/progress.js:88:26) at Frame.click
(/tmp/playwright-
java-15622334390061213365/package/lib/server/frames.js:1011:23) at
FrameDispatcher.click (/tmp/playwright-
java-15622334390061213365/package/lib/server/dispatchers/frameDispatcher.js:149:30)
at DispatcherConnection.dispatch (/tmp/playwright-
java-15622334390061213365/package/lib/server/dispatchers/dispatcher.js:319:46)
} at com.microsoft.playwright.impl.Connection.dispatch(Connection.java:199) at
com.microsoft.playwright.impl.Connection.processOneMessage(Connection.java:181)
at com.microsoft.playwright.impl.ChannelOwner.runUntil(ChannelOwner.java:109)
at com.microsoft.playwright.impl.Connection.sendMessage(Connection.java:119)
at
com.microsoft.playwright.impl.ChannelOwner.sendMessage(ChannelOwner.java:102)
at com.microsoft.playwright.impl.FrameImpl.clickImpl(FrameImpl.java:252) at
com.microsoft.playwright.impl.FrameImpl.lambda$click$8(FrameImpl.java:243) at
com.microsoft.playwright.impl.LoggingSupport.lambda$withLogging$0(LoggingSupport.java:36)
at
com.microsoft.playwright.impl.LoggingSupport.withLogging(LoggingSupport.java:47)
at
com.microsoft.playwright.impl.ChannelOwner.withLogging(ChannelOwner.java:87)
at
com.microsoft.playwright.impl.LoggingSupport.withLogging(LoggingSupport.java:35)
at com.microsoft.playwright.impl.FrameImpl.click(FrameImpl.java:243) at
com.microsoft.playwright.impl.LocatorImpl.click(LocatorImpl.java:123) at
com.microsoft.playwright.Locator.click(Locator.java:2183) at
com.esign.utility.CommonUtility.click(CommonUtility.java:35) at
com.esign.steps.PackageSteps.user_enables_TRID_expiration(PackageSteps.java:1775)
at java.base/jdk.internal.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke0(Native
Method) at
java.base/jdk.internal.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(NativeMethodAccessorImpl.java:62)
at
java.base/jdk.internal.reflect.DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.java:43)
at java.base/java.lang.reflect.Method.invoke(Method.java:566) at
io.cucumber.java.Invoker.doInvoke(Invoker.java:66) at
io.cucumber.java.Invoker.invoke(Invoker.java:24) at
io.cucumber.java.AbstractGlueDefinition.invokeMethod(AbstractGlueDefinition.java:47)
at io.cucumber.java.JavaStepDefinition.execute(JavaStepDefinition.java:29) at
io.cucumber.core.runner.CoreStepDefinition.execute(CoreStepDefinition.java:66)
at
io.cucumber.core.runner.PickleStepDefinitionMatch.runStep(PickleStepDefinitionMatch.java:63)
at io.cucumber.core.runner.ExecutionMode$1.execute(ExecutionMode.java:10) at
io.cucumber.core.runner.TestStep.executeStep(TestStep.java:85) at
io.cucumber.core.runner.TestStep.run(TestStep.java:57) at
io.cucumber.core.runner.PickleStepTestStep.run(PickleStepTestStep.java:51) at
io.cucumber.core.runner.TestCase.run(TestCase.java:84) at
io.cucumber.core.runner.Runner.runPickle(Runner.java:75) at
io.cucumber.testng.TestNGCucumberRunner.lambda$runScenario$1(TestNGCucumberRunner.java:132)
at
io.cucumber.core.runtime.CucumberExecutionContext.lambda$runTestCase$5(CucumberExecutionContext.java:129)
at
io.cucumber.core.runtime.RethrowingThrowableCollector.executeAndThrow(RethrowingThrowableCollector.java:23)
at
io.cucumber.core.runtime.CucumberExecutionContext.runTestCase(CucumberExecutionContext.java:129)
at
io.cucumber.testng.TestNGCucumberRunner.runScenario(TestNGCucumberRunner.java:129)
at
io.cucumber.testng.AbstractTestNGCucumberTests.runScenario(AbstractTestNGCucumberTests.java:35)
at jdk.internal.reflect.GeneratedMethodAccessor152.invoke(Unknown Source) at
java.base/jdk.internal.reflect.DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.java:43)
at java.base/java.lang.reflect.Method.invoke(Method.java:566) at
org.testng.internal.invokers.MethodInvocationHelper.invokeMethod(MethodInvocationHelper.java:139)
at org.testng.internal.invokers.TestInvoker.invokeMethod(TestInvoker.java:677)
at
org.testng.internal.invokers.TestInvoker.invokeTestMethod(TestInvoker.java:221)
at
org.testng.internal.invokers.MethodRunner.runInSequence(MethodRunner.java:50)
at
org.testng.internal.invokers.TestInvoker$MethodInvocationAgent.invoke(TestInvoker.java:969)
at
org.testng.internal.invokers.TestInvoker.invokeTestMethods(TestInvoker.java:194)
at
org.testng.internal.invokers.TestMethodWorker.invokeTestMethods(TestMethodWorker.java:148)
at
org.testng.internal.invokers.TestMethodWorker.run(TestMethodWorker.java:128)
at java.base/java.util.ArrayList.forEach(ArrayList.java:1541) at
org.testng.TestRunner.privateRun(TestRunner.java:829) at
org.testng.TestRunner.run(TestRunner.java:602) at
org.testng.SuiteRunner.runTest(SuiteRunner.java:437) at
org.testng.SuiteRunner.runSequentially(SuiteRunner.java:431) at
org.testng.SuiteRunner.privateRun(SuiteRunner.java:391) at
org.testng.SuiteRunner.run(SuiteRunner.java:330) at
org.testng.SuiteRunnerWorker.runSuite(SuiteRunnerWorker.java:52) at
org.testng.SuiteRunnerWorker.run(SuiteRunnerWorker.java:95) at
org.testng.TestNG.runSuitesSequentially(TestNG.java:1256) at
org.testng.TestNG.runSuitesLocally(TestNG.java:1176) at
org.testng.TestNG.runSuites(TestNG.java:1099) at
org.testng.TestNG.run(TestNG.java:1067) at
org.apache.maven.surefire.testng.TestNGExecutor.run(TestNGExecutor.java:77) at
org.apache.maven.surefire.testng.TestNGDirectoryTestSuite.execute(TestNGDirectoryTestSuite.java:110)
at
org.apache.maven.surefire.testng.TestNGProvider.invoke(TestNGProvider.java:106)
at java.base/jdk.internal.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke0(Native
Method) at
java.base/jdk.internal.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(NativeMethodAccessorImpl.java:62)
at
java.base/jdk.internal.reflect.DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.java:43)
at java.base/java.lang.reflect.Method.invoke(Method.java:566) at
org.apache.maven.surefire.util.ReflectionUtils.invokeMethodWithArray(ReflectionUtils.java:189)
at
org.apache.maven.surefire.booter.ProviderFactory$ProviderProxy.invoke(ProviderFactory.java:165)
at
org.apache.maven.surefire.booter.ProviderFactory.invokeProvider(ProviderFactory.java:85)
at
org.apache.maven.surefire.booter.ForkedBooter.runSuitesInProcess(ForkedBooter.java:115)
at org.apache.maven.surefire.booter.ForkedBooter.main(ForkedBooter.java:75)  
2023-05-31 20:18:15
We are using Playwright with java 19. My testcases are failing intermittently.
Though they are passing on chrome.
Mostly I see they are failed to find locators and giving timeout exceptions.
**Expected**
Testcases should pass on Firefox browsers as well.  
**Actual**
Testcases are failing on Firefox browsers but passing on chrome
The content you are editing has changed. Please copy your edits and refresh
the page.
Title of tasklist
Cancel Save
### Tasks
Edit tasklist title
Beta Give feedback
Tasklist Tasks, more options
  * Rename
  * Copy markdown 
  * Delete tasklist
#  Delete tasklist
Delete tasklist block?
Are you sure? All relationships in this tasklist will be removed.
Cancel Delete
No tasks being tracked yet.
  1. Options
    * Convert to issue
    * Toggle completion
    * Rename
    * Remove
  2. 
Add item to Tasks
Type to add an item or paste in an issue URL