 **I am using Glide in my app to display the images (like photo app), when i
do the lazy loading of images from server my app is getting crash.**
Pls find the crash log
`E/StrictMode: A resource was acquired at attached stack trace but never
released. See java.io.Closeable for information on avoiding resource leaks.
java.lang.Throwable: Explicit termination method 'close' not called at
dalvik.system.CloseGuard.open(CloseGuard.java:180) at
java.net.AbstractPlainSocketImpl.create(AbstractPlainSocketImpl.java:103) at
java.net.Socket.createImpl(Socket.java:451) at
java.net.Socket.getImpl(Socket.java:517) at
java.net.Socket.setSoTimeout(Socket.java:1108) at
com.android.okhttp.Connection.connectSocket(Connection.java:195) at
com.android.okhttp.Connection.connect(Connection.java:172) at
com.android.okhttp.Connection.connectAndSetOwner(Connection.java:367) at
com.android.okhttp.OkHttpClient$1.connectAndSetOwner(OkHttpClient.java:130) at
com.android.okhttp.internal.http.HttpEngine.connect(HttpEngine.java:329) at
com.android.okhttp.internal.http.HttpEngine.sendRequest(HttpEngine.java:246)
at
com.android.okhttp.internal.huc.HttpURLConnectionImpl.execute(HttpURLConnectionImpl.java:457)
at
com.android.okhttp.internal.huc.HttpURLConnectionImpl.connect(HttpURLConnectionImpl.java:126)
at
com.bumptech.glide.load.data.HttpUrlFetcher.loadDataWithRedirects(HttpUrlFetcher.java:101)
at
com.bumptech.glide.load.data.HttpUrlFetcher.loadData(HttpUrlFetcher.java:53)
at
com.bumptech.glide.load.model.MultiModelLoader$MultiFetcher.loadData(MultiModelLoader.java:95)
at
com.bumptech.glide.load.engine.SourceGenerator.startNext(SourceGenerator.java:61)
at com.bumptech.glide.load.engine.DecodeJob.runGenerators(DecodeJob.java:282)
at com.bumptech.glide.load.engine.DecodeJob.runWrapped(DecodeJob.java:252) at
com.bumptech.glide.load.engine.DecodeJob.run(DecodeJob.java:222) at
java.util.concurrent.ThreadPoolExecutor.runWorker(ThreadPoolExecutor.java:1133)
at
java.util.concurrent.ThreadPoolExecutor$Worker.run(ThreadPoolExecutor.java:607)
at java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:761) at
com.bumptech.glide.load.engine.executor.GlideExecutor$DefaultThreadFactory$1.run(GlideExecutor.java:347)`