modules/flann/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_flann.dir/test/test_lshtable_badarg.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/ocl4dnn/src/ocl4dnn_lrn.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/flann/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_flann.dir/test/test_main.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/features2d/CMakeFiles/opencv_features2d.dir/src/kaze/fed.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/ocl4dnn/src/ocl4dnn_pool.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Linking CXX executable ../../bin/opencv_test_flann  
[ 52%] Built target opencv_test_flann  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/ocl4dnn/src/ocl4dnn_softmax.cpp.o  
Scanning dependencies of target opencv_test_imgproc  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/features2d/CMakeFiles/opencv_features2d.dir/src/kaze/nldiffusion_functions.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_imgproc.dir/test/ocl/test_accumulate.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/op_halide.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/tensorflow/tf_importer.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/features2d/CMakeFiles/opencv_features2d.dir/src/keypoint.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/features2d/CMakeFiles/opencv_features2d.dir/src/main.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/features2d/CMakeFiles/opencv_features2d.dir/src/matchers.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_imgproc.dir/test/ocl/test_blend.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_core.dir/test/ocl/test_channels.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_imgproc.dir/test/ocl/test_boxfilter.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/features2d/CMakeFiles/opencv_features2d.dir/src/mser.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/features2d/CMakeFiles/opencv_features2d.dir/src/orb.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/tensorflow/tf_io.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/torch/THDiskFile.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_imgproc.dir/test/ocl/test_canny.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/torch/THFile.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/features2d/CMakeFiles/opencv_features2d.dir/opencl_kernels_features2d.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/torch/THGeneral.cpp.o  
[ 52%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_core.dir/test/ocl/test_dft.cpp.o  
[ 53%] Linking CXX shared library ../../lib/libopencv_features2d.dylib  
[ 53%] Built target opencv_features2d  
Scanning dependencies of target opencv_perf_imgproc  
[ 54%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/torch/torch_importer.cpp.o  
[ 54%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_imgproc.dir/perf/opencl/perf_3vs4.cpp.o  
[ 55%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_imgproc.dir/test/ocl/test_color.cpp.o  
[ 55%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_core.dir/perf/opencl/perf_channels.cpp.o  
[ 55%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_imgproc.dir/perf/opencl/perf_accumulate.cpp.o  
[ 55%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/opencl_kernels_dnn.cpp.o  
[ 56%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_core.dir/test/ocl/test_gemm.cpp.o  
[ 56%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/layers/layers_common.avx.cpp.o  
[ 56%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/layers/layers_common.avx2.cpp.o  
[ 57%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_core.dir/perf/opencl/perf_dxt.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_imgproc.dir/perf/opencl/perf_blend.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Linking CXX shared library ../../lib/libopencv_dnn.dylib  
[ 58%] Built target opencv_dnn  
Scanning dependencies of target opencv_test_ml  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/ml/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_ml.dir/test/test_emknearestkmeans.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_core.dir/test/ocl/test_image2d.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_imgproc.dir/perf/opencl/perf_color.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_core.dir/perf/opencl/perf_gemm.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_core.dir/test/ocl/test_matrix_expr.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/ml/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_ml.dir/test/test_gbttest.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/ml/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_ml.dir/test/test_lr.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_imgproc.dir/perf/opencl/perf_filters.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_imgproc.dir/test/ocl/test_filter2d.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_core.dir/perf/opencl/perf_matop.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/ml/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_ml.dir/test/test_main.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_core.dir/test/ocl/test_matrix_operation.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/ml/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_ml.dir/test/test_mltests.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_imgproc.dir/test/ocl/test_filters.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/ml/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_ml.dir/test/test_mltests2.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_core.dir/perf/opencl/perf_usage_flags.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_core.dir/test/test_arithm.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/ml/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_ml.dir/test/test_save_load.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_core.dir/perf/perf_abs.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_imgproc.dir/perf/opencl/perf_gftt.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/ml/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_ml.dir/test/test_svmsgd.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_core.dir/perf/perf_addWeighted.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/ml/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_ml.dir/test/test_svmtrainauto.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_imgproc.dir/perf/opencl/perf_houghLines.cpp.o  
[ 58%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_core.dir/perf/perf_arithm.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Linking CXX executable ../../bin/opencv_test_ml  
[ 59%] Built target opencv_test_ml  
Scanning dependencies of target opencv_test_objdetect  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/objdetect/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_objdetect.dir/test/opencl/test_hogdetector.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_imgproc.dir/test/ocl/test_gftt.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_imgproc.dir/perf/opencl/perf_imgproc.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/objdetect/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_objdetect.dir/test/test_cascadeandhog.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_imgproc.dir/test/ocl/test_histogram.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_core.dir/test/test_concatenation.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_core.dir/test/test_conjugate_gradient.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/objdetect/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_objdetect.dir/test/test_main.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_core.dir/perf/perf_bitwise.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Linking CXX executable ../../bin/opencv_test_objdetect  
[ 59%] Built target opencv_test_objdetect  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_imgproc.dir/perf/opencl/perf_imgwarp.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_core.dir/test/test_countnonzero.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_imgproc.dir/test/ocl/test_houghlines.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_core.dir/perf/perf_compare.cpp.o  
Scanning dependencies of target opencv_perf_objdetect  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/objdetect/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_objdetect.dir/perf/opencl/perf_cascades.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_core.dir/test/test_downhill_simplex.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_imgproc.dir/perf/opencl/perf_matchTemplate.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_imgproc.dir/test/ocl/test_imgproc.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_core.dir/perf/perf_convertTo.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_core.dir/test/test_ds.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/objdetect/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_objdetect.dir/perf/opencl/perf_hogdetect.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/objdetect/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_objdetect.dir/perf/perf_main.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_core.dir/perf/perf_cvround.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_imgproc.dir/perf/opencl/perf_moments.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Linking CXX executable ../../bin/opencv_perf_objdetect  
[ 59%] Built target opencv_perf_objdetect  
Scanning dependencies of target opencv_perf_photo  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_photo.dir/perf/opencl/perf_denoising.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_core.dir/test/test_dxt.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_core.dir/perf/perf_dft.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_photo.dir/perf/perf_cuda.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_imgproc.dir/perf/opencl/perf_pyramid.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_photo.dir/perf/perf_inpaint.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_core.dir/test/test_eigen.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_imgproc.dir/test/ocl/test_match_template.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_imgproc.dir/perf/perf_accumulate.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_photo.dir/perf/perf_main.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_core.dir/perf/perf_dot.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Linking CXX executable ../../bin/opencv_perf_photo  
[ 59%] Built target opencv_perf_photo  
Scanning dependencies of target opencv_test_photo  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_photo.dir/test/ocl/test_denoising.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_core.dir/test/test_hal_core.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_core.dir/perf/perf_inRange.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_imgproc.dir/test/ocl/test_medianfilter.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_imgproc.dir/perf/perf_bilateral.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_core.dir/perf/perf_io_base64.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_core.dir/test/test_intrin.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_photo.dir/test/test_cloning.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_imgproc.dir/perf/perf_blur.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_imgproc.dir/test/ocl/test_pyramids.cpp.o  
[ 59%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_photo.dir/test/test_decolor.cpp.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_core.dir/perf/perf_lut.cpp.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_photo.dir/test/test_denoise_tvl1.cpp.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_core.dir/perf/perf_main.cpp.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_imgproc.dir/test/ocl/test_sepfilter2D.cpp.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_photo.dir/test/test_denoising.cpp.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_core.dir/perf/perf_mat.cpp.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_imgproc.dir/perf/perf_canny.cpp.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_photo.dir/test/test_denoising.cuda.cpp.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_photo.dir/test/test_hdr.cpp.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_test_imgproc.dir/test/ocl/test_warp.cpp.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object
modules/core/CMakeFiles/opencv_perf_core.dir/perf/perf_math.cpp.o  
[ 60%] Building CXX object