[ 38%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgproc.dir/color_rgb.avx2.cpp.o  
[ 38%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgproc.dir/color_yuv.avx2.cpp.o  
[ 38%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgproc.dir/median_blur.avx2.cpp.o  
[ 38%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgproc.dir/morph.avx2.cpp.o  
[ 38%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgproc.dir/smooth.avx2.cpp.o  
[ 38%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgproc.dir/sumpixels.avx2.cpp.o  
[ 38%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgproc.dir/sumpixels.avx512_skx.cpp.o  
\--
/Users/igla/Downloads/opencv-4.5.5_build/modules/imgproc/opencl_kernels_imgproc.hpp
contains the same content  
[ 38%] Building CXX object
modules/imgproc/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgproc.dir/opencl_kernels_imgproc.cpp.o  
[ 38%] Linking CXX executable ../../bin/opencv_version  
[ 38%] Built target opencv_version  
[ 38%] Linking CXX shared library ../../lib/libopencv_ml.dylib  
[ 38%] Built target opencv_ml  
[ 38%] Linking CXX shared library ../../lib/libopencv_flann.dylib  
[ 38%] Built target opencv_flann  
[ 38%] Linking CXX shared library ../../lib/libopencv_imgproc.dylib  
[ 38%] Built target opencv_imgproc  
[ 38%] Processing OpenCL kernels (photo)  
\--
/Users/igla/Downloads/opencv-4.5.5_build/modules/photo/opencl_kernels_photo.hpp
contains the same content  
[ 38%] Processing OpenCL kernels (features2d)  
\--
/Users/igla/Downloads/opencv-4.5.5_build/modules/features2d/opencl_kernels_features2d.hpp
contains the same content  
Scanning dependencies of target opencv_photo  
Scanning dependencies of target opencv_features2d  
[ 38%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/loadsave.cpp.o  
[ 38%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/utils.cpp.o  
[ 38%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/apple_conversions.mm.o  
[ 38%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/grfmt_base.cpp.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/macosx_conversions.mm.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/grfmt_bmp.cpp.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/grfmt_exr.cpp.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/grfmt_gdal.cpp.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/grfmt_gdcm.cpp.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/grfmt_hdr.cpp.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/misc/caffe/opencv-caffe.pb.cc.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/misc/onnx/opencv-onnx.pb.cc.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/misc/tensorflow/attr_value.pb.cc.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_photo.dir/src/align.cpp.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_photo.dir/src/calibrate.cpp.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/misc/tensorflow/graph.pb.cc.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/misc/tensorflow/function.pb.cc.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_photo.dir/src/denoise_tvl1.cpp.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_photo.dir/src/contrast_preserve.cpp.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/grfmt_jpeg.cpp.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_photo.dir/src/denoising.cpp.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/misc/tensorflow/op_def.pb.cc.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/grfmt_jpeg2000.cpp.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/grfmt_jpeg2000_openjpeg.cpp.o  
[ 39%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_photo.dir/src/denoising.cuda.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/misc/tensorflow/tensor.pb.cc.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/grfmt_pam.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/misc/tensorflow/tensor_shape.pb.cc.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_photo.dir/src/hdr_common.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/grfmt_png.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/grfmt_pxm.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/grfmt_pfm.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/misc/tensorflow/types.pb.cc.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/misc/tensorflow/versions.pb.cc.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/grfmt_sunras.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/caffe/caffe_importer.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/grfmt_tiff.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/caffe/caffe_io.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_photo.dir/src/inpaint.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/caffe/caffe_shrinker.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_photo.dir/src/merge.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_photo.dir/src/npr.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_photo.dir/src/seamless_cloning.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/darknet/darknet_importer.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_photo.dir/src/seamless_cloning_impl.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/darknet/darknet_io.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/rgbe.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/debug_utils.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/bitstrm.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Processing OpenCL kernels (photo)  
[ 40%] Building CXX object modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/dnn.cpp.o  
[ 40%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/exif.cpp.o  
[ 41%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_photo.dir/src/tonemap.cpp.o  
[ 42%] Building CXX object
modules/imgcodecs/CMakeFiles/opencv_imgcodecs.dir/src/grfmt_webp.cpp.o  
[ 42%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/graph_simplifier.cpp.o  
[ 42%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/halide_scheduler.cpp.o  
[ 42%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/ie_ngraph.cpp.o  
[ 42%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/init.cpp.o  
[ 43%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/int8layers/batch_norm_layer.cpp.o  
[ 43%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/int8layers/convolution_layer.cpp.o  
[ 43%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/int8layers/elementwise_layers.cpp.o  
[ 43%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/int8layers/eltwise_layer.cpp.o  
[ 43%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/int8layers/fully_connected_layer.cpp.o  
[ 43%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/int8layers/pooling_layer.cpp.o  
\--
/Users/igla/Downloads/opencv-4.5.5_build/modules/photo/opencl_kernels_photo.hpp
contains the same content  
[ 43%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/int8layers/quantization_utils.cpp.o  
[ 43%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/int8layers/scale_layer.cpp.o  
[ 43%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/int8layers/softmax_layer.cpp.o  
[ 43%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/accum_layer.cpp.o  
[ 43%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/arg_layer.cpp.o  
[ 43%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/batch_norm_layer.cpp.o  
[ 43%] Building CXX object
modules/photo/CMakeFiles/opencv_photo.dir/opencl_kernels_photo.cpp.o  
[ 43%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/blank_layer.cpp.o  
[ 43%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/concat_layer.cpp.o  
[ 43%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/const_layer.cpp.o  
[ 43%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/convolution_layer.cpp.o  
[ 44%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/correlation_layer.cpp.o  
[ 44%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/crop_and_resize_layer.cpp.o  
[ 44%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/cumsum_layer.cpp.o  
[ 44%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/detection_output_layer.cpp.o  
[ 44%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/elementwise_layers.cpp.o  
[ 44%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/eltwise_layer.cpp.o  
[ 44%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/flatten_layer.cpp.o  
[ 44%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/flow_warp_layer.cpp.o  
[ 44%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/fully_connected_layer.cpp.o  
[ 44%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/layers_common.cpp.o  
[ 44%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/lrn_layer.cpp.o  
[ 44%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/max_unpooling_layer.cpp.o  
[ 44%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/mvn_layer.cpp.o  
[ 44%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/normalize_bbox_layer.cpp.o  
[ 44%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/not_implemented_layer.cpp.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/padding_layer.cpp.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/permute_layer.cpp.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/pooling_layer.cpp.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/prior_box_layer.cpp.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/proposal_layer.cpp.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/recurrent_layers.cpp.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/region_layer.cpp.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/reorg_layer.cpp.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/reshape_layer.cpp.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/resize_layer.cpp.o  
[ 45%] Building CXX object
modules/dnn/CMakeFiles/opencv_dnn.dir/src/layers/scale_layer.cpp.o  