notifications, webhooks, and more:
[https://aka.ms/ash-alerts](https://aka.ms/ash-alerts)

**How can we make our incident communications more useful?**

You can rate this PIR and provide any feedback using our quick
3-question survey:
[https://aka.ms/AzPIR/XMGF-5Z0](https://aka.ms/AzPIR/XMGF-5Z0)

## 5 

[07/05/2023]

Post Incident Review (PIR) - Networking fiber cut - West Europe

Tracking ID: FVHB-188


*Watch our \'Azure Incident Retrospective\' video about this incident:
[https://aka.ms/AIR/FVHB-188](https://aka.ms/AIR/FVHB-188)*

**What happened?**

Between approximately 07:22 UTC and 16:00 UTC on 5 July 2023, Azure
customers using the West Europe region may have experienced packet
drops, timeouts, and/or increased latency. This impact resulted from a
fiber cut caused by severe weather conditions in the Netherlands. The
West Europe region has multiple datacenters and is designed with four
independent fiber paths for the traffic that flows between
datacenters.Â In this incident, one of the four major paths was cut,
which resulted in congestive packet loss when traffic on the remaining
links exceeded their capacity.

Downstream Azure services dependent on this intra-region network
connectivity were also impacted -- including Azure App Services, Azure
Application Insights, Azure Data Explorer, Azure Database for MySQL,
Azure Databricks (which also experienced impact in North Europe, as a
result of a control plane dependency), Azure Digital Twins, Azure
HDInsight, Azure Kubernetes Service, Azure Log Analytics, Azure Monitor,
Azure NetApp Files, Azure Resource Graph, Azure Site Recovery, Azure
Service Bus, Azure SQL DB, Azure Storage, and Azure Virtual Machines --
as well as subsets of Microsoft 365, Microsoft Power Platform, and
Microsoft Sentinel services.

**What went wrong and why?**

Due to a fiber cut caused by severe weather conditions in the
Netherlands, 25% of network links between two campuses of West Europe
datacenters became unavailable. These links were already running at
higher utilization than our design target, and there was a capacity
augment project in progress to address this. Due to a previous incident
related to this capacity augment on 16 June 2023 (Tracking ID VLB8-1Z0),
the augment work was proceeding with extreme caution and was still in
progress when the fiber cut occurred.

As a result of the fiber cut and the higher utilization, congestion
increased to a point where intermittent packet drops occurred in many of
the intra-region paths. This primarily impacted network traffic between
Availability Zones within the West Europe region, not traffic to and
from the region itself. As a result of this interruption, Azure services
that rely on internal communications with other services within the
region may have experienced degraded performance, manifesting in the
issues described above.

**How did we respond?**

Network alerting services indicated a fiber cut at 07:22 UTC and a
congestion alert triggered at 07:46 UTC. Our networking on-call
engineers engaged and began to investigate. Two parallel workstreams
were spun up to mitigate impact:

The first workstream focused on reducing traffic in the region and
balancing it across the remaining links. This balancing activity
requires a detailed before-and-after traffic simulation to ensure
safety, and these simulations were initiated as a first step. At 10:00
UTC we initiated throttling and migration of internal service traffic
away from the region. We also started work on rebalancing traffic away
from congested links. As a result of these activities, by 14:52 UTC
packet drops were reduced significantly, by 15:30 UTC many internal and
external services saw signs of recovery, and by 16:00 UTC packet drops
had returned to pre-incident levels. We continued to work on reducing
high link utilization and by 16:21 UTC the rebalancing activity was
completed.

The second workstream focused on repairing the impacted links, in
partnership with our dark fiber provider in the Netherlands. These cable
repairs took longer than expected since access to the impacted area was
hindered by the weather and hazardous working conditions. Partial
restoration was confirmed by 19:30 UTC, and full restoration was
confirmed by 20:50 UTC. While this restored the network capacity between
datacenters, we continued to monitor our network infrastructure and
capacity before declaring the incident mitigated at 22:45 UTC.

**How are we making incidents like this less likely or less impactful?**

-   We have repaired the impacted networking links, in partnership with
    our dark fiber provider in the Netherlands. (Completed)
-   Within 24 hours of the incident being mitigated we brought
    additional capacity online, on the impacted network path.
    (Completed)
-   Within a week of the incident, we are 90% complete with our capacity
    augments that will double capacity in our West Europe region to
    bring utilization within our design targets. (Estimated completion:
    July 2023)
-   As committed in a previous Post Incident Review (PIR), we are
    working towards auto-declaring regional incidents to ensure
    customers get notified more quickly (Estimated completion: August
    2023).

**How can customers make incidents like this less impactful?**

-   During the incident, we advised customers who were able to fail out
    of the West Europe region to consider doing so. Customers should
    consider a multi-region geodiversity strategy for mission-critical
    workloads, to avoid impact from incidents like this one that
    impacted a single region:
    [https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/design-a-geographically-distributed-application/](https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/design-a-geographically-distributed-application/)
    and
    [https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/patterns/geodes](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/patterns/geodes)
-   More generally, consider evaluating the reliability of your
    applications using guidance from the Azure Well-Architected
    Framework and its interactive Well-Architected Review:
    [https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/framework/resiliency](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/framework/resiliency)
-   Finally, consider ensuring that the right people in your
    organization will be notified about any future service issues - by
    configuring Azure Service Health alerts. These can trigger emails,
    SMS, push notifications, webhooks, and more:
    [https://aka.ms/ash-alerts](https://aka.ms/ash-alerts)

**How can we make our incident communications more useful?**

You can rate this PIR and provide any feedback using our quick
3-question survey:
[https://aka.ms/AzPIR/FVHB-188](https://aka.ms/AzPIR/FVHB-188)

## June 2023

## 16 

[06/16/2023]

Post Incident Review (PIR) - Networking connectivity issues - West
Europe

Tracking ID: VLB8-1Z0


*Watch our \'Azure Incident Retrospective\' video about this incident:
[https://aka.ms/AIR/VLB8-1Z0](https://aka.ms/AIR/VLB8-1Z0)*

**What happened?**

Between 02:34 UTC and 07:25 UTC on 16 June 2023, a network issue caused
excessive packet loss that affected traffic entering or leaving the West
Europe region and, to a lesser extent, traffic between Availability
Zones inside the West Europe region. Resources hosted in this region may
have experienced availability failures, low throughput, or increased
latencies. The traffic loss rate peaked at 10% for short periods of time
during the incident.

Downstream Azure services dependent on this network connectivity were
also impacted -- including Azure API Management, Azure App Services,
Azure Application Insights, Azure Automation, Azure Container Apps,
Azure Container Registry, Azure Cosmos DB, Azure Data Explorer, Azure
Data Factory, Azure Database for MySQL, Azure Database for PostgreSQL,
Azure Databricks (which also experienced impact in North Europe, as a
result of a control plane dependency), Azure DevOps, Azure Digital
Twins, Azure Event Grids, Azure HDInsight, Azure IoT Hub, Azure Key
Vault, Azure Kubernetes Service, Azure Logic Apps, Azure Monitor, Azure
NetApp Files, Azure Resource Graph, Azure Resource Manager, Azure
Service Bus, Azure Site Recovery, Azure SQL Database, Azure Spatial
Anchors, Azure Synapse, Azure Update Management Center, Azure Virtual
Desktop, Azure Virtual Machines, and Azure Web PubSub -- as well as
subsets of Microsoft 365, Microsoft Intune, Microsoft Purview, Microsoft
Sentinel, and Microsoft Power Platform services.

**What went wrong and why?**

The Azure network is comprised of millions of links between routers,
with many redundant links to cope with failures. As a faulty link can
cause packet loss or corruption, Azure has network automation systems
that continually monitor these links for health. When our automation
systems detect a link is unhealthy, the system confirms it is safe to
remove the link from service; issues commands to the routers to shut
down the link; and then issues a request to datacenter staff to repair
or replace the faulty link.

A network architecture detail relevant to this incident is that the
routers carrying traffic between Availability Zones and the Wide Area
Network in West Europe are connected by groups of multiple physical
links bundled together into what are called Link Aggregation Groups
(LAGs or port-channels). To keep traffic balanced across the physical
links, if one or more links in a LAG fail it is desirable to turn off
the entire LAG.

Shortly before the start time of this incident, a new network topology
description was added into the network automation systems that manage
the West Europe region. This new topology included links that were about
to be added to the network to increase the capacity in West Europe, but
the physical links had not yet been connected or turned on. This network
topology description incorrectly listed these links as being
'Production'. The network automation systems detected LAGs that
contained working physical links as well as the non-working 'Production'
links. Then, as designed, network automation began issuing commands
consistent with standard mitigations to turn off the LAGs, to prevent
impact due to potential link imbalance.

Although regions are built with extensive redundancy, enough links were
taken out of service to cause congestion and impact to customer traffic.
As soon as the network automation systems reached our operational safety
thresholds, they determined it was unsafe to continue taking links out
of service and stopped their activity, as designed. This safety
mechanism prevented the impact from worsening.

**How did we respond?**

Packet loss detection alerts fired at 03:03 UTC and notified our on-call
engineers that help was needed to recover the network. Engineers scanned
the network to identify links that were incorrectly removed from service
and distinguish them from links that were correctly removed from service
for being unhealthy. Although these mitigation efforts were in progress
by 04:45 UTC, the packet loss worsened from 02:34 to 05:45 as traffic in
the region increased with the workday starting in the EMEA region.

Engineers placed the healthy links back into service and ensured that
the network automation would not remove them again. From 05:45 UTC, the
network recovered progressively throughout the remaining incident
period, as the links were restored.Â The network was substantially
recovered by 06:12 UTC, and loss rates returned to normal by 07:25 UTC.
Other services dependent on the network recovered shortly thereafter.
This capacity augment project in West Europe is halted and will only be
resumed after a thorough review and update of the current process.Â 

**How are we making incidents like this less likely or less impactful?**

The two key factors that contributed to this incident were (1) a
capacity augment project carried out where the state of the new
to-be-added links was set to "Production" within our network automation
system, and our system detected these links as inoperative and initiated
mitigation actions; and (2) the system that acts as a safety gate for
the auto-mitigation actions estimated the degree of impact incorrectly,
and allowed the auto-mitigation systems to take down too much capacity
on the network, which led to congestion and packet drops.Â As a result of
these learnings, our repair items include the following:

-   We have enhanced our alerts to accelerate packet loss detection and
    decrease time to detect (Completed)
-   We are enhancing our roll-back capability for our on-call engineers
    to speed up recovery (Estimated completion: August 2023).
-   We will auto-declare regional incidents to ensure customers get
    notified more quickly (Estimated completion: August 2023).
-   We are making improvements to the procedure that was used for this
    specific capacity augment scenario to ensure non-working links are
    not set to an In-Production state (Estimated completion: September
    2023).
-   We are making the safety gates used by our auto-mitigations more
    stringent with respect to network utilization and capacity headroom
    (Estimated completion: September 2023).
-   We are making improvements to the procedure that was used for this
    specific capacity augment scenario to ensure non-working links are
    not set to a Production state (Estimated completion: October 2023).

**How can customers make incidents like this less impactful?**

-   Consider a multi-region geodiversity strategy for your
    mission-critical workloads, to avoid impact from incidents like this
    one that impacted a single region:
    [https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/design-a-geographically-distributed-application/](https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/design-a-geographically-distributed-application/)
    and
    [https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/patterns/geodes](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/patterns/geodes)
-   Applications that use exponential-backoff in their retry strategy
    may have seen success, as an immediate retry during the short
    intervals of high packet loss may have also seen high packet loss,
    but a retry conducted during periods of lower loss would have likely
    succeeded. For more details on retry patterns, refer to
    [https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/patterns/retry](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/patterns/retry)
-   More generally, consider evaluating the reliability of your
    applications using guidance from the Azure Well-Architected
    Framework and its interactive Well-Architected Review:
    [https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/framework/resiliency](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/framework/resiliency)
-   Finally, consider ensuring that the right people in your
    organization will be notified about any future service issues - by
    configuring Azure Service Health alerts. These can trigger emails,
    SMS, push notifications, webhooks, and
    more:Â [https://aka.ms/ash-alerts](https://aka.ms/ash-alerts)

**How can we make our incident communications more useful?**

You can rate this PIR and provide any feedback using our quick
3-question survey:
[https://aka.ms/AzPIR/VLB8-1Z0](https://aka.ms/AzPIR/VLB8-1Z0)

## 9 

[06/09/2023]

Post Incident Review (PIR) - Azure Portal - Errors accessing the Azure
portal

Tracking ID: QNPD-NC8


*Watch our \'Azure Incident Retrospective\' video about this incident:
