#  Security incident update

[The Linode Security
Team](https://www.linode.com/blog/author/linodesecurity/)

April 16, 2013


### Sign up for the "In the Node" Newsletter

The form is loading


Please reload the page and try again.

Email

By providing your email address or using a single sign-on provider to
create an account, you agree to our [Terms of
Service](https://www.linode.com/legal/) and that you have reviewed
our [Privacy Policy](https://www.linode.com/legal-privacy/) and [Cookie
Policy](https://www.linode.com/legal-cookies/).

Submit

Yesterday, a group named HTP claimed responsibility for accessing Linode
Manager web servers, we believe by exploiting a previously unknown
zero-day vulnerability in Adobe's ColdFusion application server. The
vulnerabilities have only recently been addressed in Adobe's
[APSB13-10](http://www.adobe.com/support/security/bulletins/apsb13-10.html)
hotfix (CVE-2013-1387 and CVE-2013-1388) which was released less than a
week ago.

As a result of the vulnerability, this group gained access to a web
server, parts of our source code, and ultimately, our database. We have
been working around the clock since discovering this vulnerability. Our
investigation reveals that this group did not have access to any other
component of the Linode infrastructure, including access to the host
machines or any other server or service that runs our infrastructure.

Credit card numbers in our database are stored in encrypted format,
using public and private key encryption. The private key is itself
encrypted with passphrase encryption and the complex passphrase is not
stored electronically. Along with the encrypted credit card, the last
four digits are stored in clear text to assist in lookups and for
display on things like your Account tab and payment receipt emails. We
have no evidence decrypted credit card numbers were obtained.

Linode Manager user passwords are not stored in our database, but their
salted and cryptographically hashed representations are. Despite the
uselessness of these hashes, as you know we expired Linode Manager
passwords on Friday.

There were occurrences of Lish passwords in clear text in our database.
We have corrected this issue and have invalidated all affected Lish
passwords effective immediately. If you need access to the Lish console,
you can reset a new Lish password under the Remote Access sub-tab of
your Linode.

For users who have set an API key, we're also taking action to expire
those keys. We'll be emailing API-enabled users with that information.

We take your trust and confidence in us very seriously, and we truly
apologize for the inconvenience that these individuals caused. Our
entire team has been affected by this, leaving all of us, like you,
feeling violated. We care deeply about the integrity of Linode and are
proud of the work that we accomplish here for you. This unfortunate
incident has only strengthened our commitment to you, our customer.

