# Thursday April 4, 2019

### Customers are experiencing degraded functionality 

Issue Summary:\

At 7:25pm PT on April 4th, we changed the configuration for one of our
core services which caused it to break. As the majority of our
functionalities depend on this service, we faced problems across the
board.\
\
Our engineers worked on a fix, and an all clear was called at 2:39am PT.

[ 4:08 AM PST ]


We\'ve got good news: we\'re in the clear and the issue has been fixed.
If you don't automatically reconnect, refresh your workspace using
Ctrl/Cmd + R. We\'re sorry for any trouble this caused. Thanks for
sticking with us.

[ 1:51 AM PST ]


Sorry for any disruption to your day. Our team is still working to fully
resolve the issue. Once we have more information, we\'ll be sure to
update you!

[ 1:08 AM PST ]


We do not have new information to share, but we are still working to
make sure our systems are running smoothly.

[ 12:37 AM PST ]


Our engineers are working to make sure systems are in a healthy state.
If you\'re still seeing significant issues with Slack functionality,
please reach out to us at feedback@slack.com.

[ 11:54 PM PST ]


We\'re continuing our work in the background to ensure things are
running as smoothly as possible across all fronts.

[ 11:23 PM PST ]


We have no new discoveries to share, but we\'re keeping a watchful eye
on impacts to your experience with these features.

[ 10:45 PM PST ]


We're seeing positive signs that functionality is returning to normal,
but we still have work to do. Please continue to let us know if you\'re
experiencing specific issues with these features through
feedback@slack.com.

[ 10:11 PM PST ]


All hands are working to fix this. We\'re seeing improvements in certain
areas, and we\'re continuing our efforts.

[ 9:37 PM PST ]


We believe we\'re on the right track for a solution, but we\'re not out
of the woods. Thanks for sticking with us.

[ 9:05 PM PST ]


We don't have additional information to share, but we\'re laser focused
on fixing these features. We\'ll continue to update you on our progress.

[ 8:32 PM PST ]


We\'ve discovered an issue with the checkout page for workspace
upgrades. Our engineers are still looking into this and the other
issues. Thanks for bearing with us.

[ 8:02 PM PST ]


We\'re still exploring the cause of these issues and we\'ve seen that
API calls may be failing as well. We\'ll be back in 30 minutes with
another update.

[ 7:32 PM PST ]


We're still investigating the issues with these key features, especially
with messages failing to send. We're so sorry for the interruption to
your day.

[ 7:01 PM PST ]


All customers may be facing issues with file uploads, unfurls, custom
responses and other features. We are actively investigating. Thank you
for your patience, and sorry for the disruption.

[ 6:31 PM PST ]

