## December 2021

## 16 

[12/16/2021]

Mitigated - Microsoft Graph API

Tracking ID: ZN7Y-5DG


**Summary of Impact:** Between 14:00 UTC and 17:30 UTC on 16 December
2021, a subset of users in North America may have experienced
performance issues and timeout errors with Microsoft Graph APIs.

**Preliminary Root Cause:** We determined that the scaling out process
was affected by an internal infrastructure issue leading to high CPU
usage. This resulted in the performance issues and timeout errors with
Microsoft Graph APIs.

**Mitigation:** To mitigate the issue we redistributed traffic to other
healthy regions in North America.

**Next steps:** We will continue to investigate to establish the full
root cause and prevent future occurrences. Stay informed about Azure
service issues by creating custom service health alerts:
[https://aka.ms/ash-videos](https://aka.ms/ash-videos)
for video tutorials and
[https://aka.ms/ash-alerts](https://aka.ms/ash-alerts)
for how-to documentation.

\

## 16 

[12/16/2021]

RCA - Azure Active Directory - Experiencing sign in issues when
attempting to access Azure, Dynamics 365, and/or Microsoft 365 Services

Tracking ID: S_3M-FZZ


**Summary of impact:** Between 01:00 UTC and 02:25 UTC on 16 December
2021, Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) users may have experienced
impact when accessing Microsoft 365, Dynamics 365 and Azure services.

Customers using desktop and mobile applications, such as Microsoft
Teams, with their work or school accounts experienced minimal disruption
as they were automatically routed to the Azure AD Backup Authentication
service. 

Some Azure AD B2C users may have experienced impact between 01:00 UTC
and 02:25 UTC.

Some Microsoft Account users, using Outlook on iOS to access their
email, may have experienced impact between 00:11 UTC and 02:25 UTC.

**Root Cause:** A regular operating system (OS) update was deployed to
endpoints of a backend service in the Azure AD authentication stack,
which interacted with the service in an unexpected way, making the
service on the updated endpoints unresponsive. As the update rollout
progressed, all redundant endpoints were impacted, at which point the
service became unavailable, on 16 December 2021 at 00:11 UTC.

All changes, with this one included, follow the safe deployment process
(SDP) with automated health monitoring in place meant to stop the
rollout in the event of an issue. In this case, due to a gap in the
backend service's health monitoring, the update rollout was not stopped
until all redundant endpoints were impacted. As the backend service
became unavailable, this issue started to manifest as sign-in failures
for a subset of Microsoft Accounts (personal accounts).

The Azure AD authentication stack is designed with circuit-breakers that
isolate failures in service dependencies , and in this case, limiting
impact to Microsoft Accounts . However, due to a second latent issue in
one of the circuit-breakers, requests that were queuing up as a result
of sign-in failures were not limited by this circuit breaker, leading to
sign-in failures for a subset of users of Azure AD and Azure AD B2C.

During this outage, we failed to communicate on the specific impact to
Azure AD B2C, in particular marking it as impacted on the Azure Status
Page, due to a coordination issue. In addition, our first notification
to impacted customers was delayed.

**Mitigation:**

01:00 UTC -- The backup authentication service was automatically
activated and started taking traffic. 

02:25 UTC -- The backend service was restored .

04:34 UTC -- Traffic to the backup authentication service was routed
back to the primary authentication infrastructure.

05:44 UTC -- The primary authentication infrastructure was monitored to
ensure services stability. Further changes to the backend service were
disabled and the incident was declared fully mitigated.

**Next steps:** We apologize for the impact to affected customers. We
are continuously taking steps to improve the Microsoft Azure Platform
and our processes to help ensure such incidents do not occur in the
future. In this case, this includes (but is not limited to):

• Disable all infrastructure changes including OS updates to the active
capacity of the backend service -- Complete 

• Perform changes to the backend service to help reduce time to detect
and recover in similar scenarios -- Complete

• Improve the communications process to help account for coverage of all
impacted services and scenarios - Complete

• Deploy a change to the circuit breakers to fix the discovered latent
issue and help minimize impact caused by this backend service --
Complete 

• Investigate and solidify a plan for additional process and tooling
improvements to help reduce the notification time for impacted
customers. - January 2022

• Continue to expand coverage of the Backup authentication service --
July 2022

\

## 13 

[12/13/2021]

RCA - Azure Data Factory V2 - West Europe

Tracking ID: 8T9M-T9G


**Summary of Impact:** Between approximately 06:30 UTC and 12:30 UTC on
13 December 2021, you were identified as a customer that may have
experienced intermittent errors accessing Azure Data Factory resources
(ADF) in West Europe.

**Root Cause:** We determined a backend service, responsible for
processing API requests became unhealthy. Retry logic from ADF, coupled
with this unhealthy service, resulted in a rare combination of transient
conditions and lead to additional errors. This resulted in intermittent
API failing calls for Azure Data Factory resources.

**Mitigation:** We restarted the backend service which mitigated the
issue.

**Next Steps:** We apologize for the impact to affected customers. We
are continuously taking steps to improve the Microsoft Azure Platform
and our processes to help ensure such incidents do not occur in the
future. In this case, this includes (but is not limited to):

-   Implement an early alert system to notify failures at this level
-   Create a repair item and work with the backend service team to
    create a solution to help prevent future occurrences

**Provide Feedback:** Please help us improve the Azure customer
communications experience by taking our survey:
[https://aka.ms/AzurePIRSurvey](https://aka.ms/AzurePIRSurvey)

## 9 

[12/09/2021]

RCA - Errors connecting to SCM App Service and/or Azure Functions
deployments

Tracking ID: SNCJ-9ZG


**Summary of Impact:** Between approximately 21:00 UTC on 09 Dec 2021
and 00:23 UTC on 10 Dec 2021, a subset of customers using App Service
and/or Azure Functions may have encountered issues with deployments
using web deploy, managing WebJobs, connecting to Web SSH console,
executing certain Diagnostic Tools using Azure portal or while accessing
SCM endpoint. App Service resources utilizing other deployment methods
were not affected. Standard App Service control plane operations and
runtime were not impacted.

**Root Cause:** As part of introducing certain resiliency measures, a
configuration change was implemented to create a redundant Domain Name
Resolution zone for App Service SCM endpoints. However, due to a
misconfiguration, this change incorrectly affected the name resolution
for App Service SCM endpoint, which resulted in a subset of our
customers not being able to connect to the SCM endpoints of the service.
This misconfiguration was limited in scope to the SCM endpoint and no
other data plane or control plane operations experienced any failures.

**Mitigation:** Engineering was engaged upon receiving reports of
failure. In order to mitigate the issue, the misconfigured state of the
zone was corrected and persisted for SCM endpoints. Most customers
observed resolution within 20 - 40 minutes from when the mitigation was
applied. Resolution times varied for customers depending on the Time To
Live (TTL) setting of the various networking devices in their traffic
pipelines.

**Next Steps:** We apologize for the impact to affected customers. We
are continuously taking steps to improve the Microsoft Azure Platform
and our processes to help ensure such incidents do not occur in the
future. In this case, this includes (but is not limited to):

-   Adding automated detection for SCM endpoint related failures.
-   Adding improved validation for zone configuration updates.
-   Enhancing review measures for critical network configurations.

**Provide Feedback:** Please help us improve the Azure customer
communications experience by taking our survey:
[https://aka.ms/AzurePIRSurvey](https://aka.ms/AzurePIRSurvey)

## November 2021

## 16 

[11/16/2021]

RCA - Azure Active Directory - Issues when attempting to authenticate

Tracking ID: SVT2-VCZ


**Summary of Impact:** (Updated on 28 Sep 2022 to reflect the correct
incident duration) Between 19:30 UTC and 22:10 UTC on 16 Nov 2021 and
between 23:00 UTC on 16 Nov 2021 and 02:50 UTC on 17 Nov 2021, a subset
of customers using Azure Active Directory B2C in the Australia region
may have encountered failures while attempting to authenticate. These
attempts may have succeeded on retry.

**Root Cause:** The engineering team has determined that an underlying
code defect triggered some service nodes to experience a shortage of
outbound ports to complete network tasks. This in turn caused an
increase in service latency and timeouts.

**Mitigation:** As an immediate mitigation, traffic was migrated away
from the affected nodes into healthy nodes in a different environment.
The engineering team also proactively increased capacity in this
environment.

**Next Steps:** We sincerely apologize for the impact to affected
customers. We are currently conducting an internal review to take
additional steps to continuously improve the Microsoft Azure platform
and our processes to ensure such issues do not occur in the future. In
this case, this includes (but is not limited to):

• Enhancement of service capacity and automatic scaling rules to include
additional dependencies such as outbound port connections

• Improvement of detection logic for cases where long-running network
calls affect customer-facing performance

• An overall service capacity review in the affected region, and
worldwide

**Provide Feedback:** Please help us improve the Azure customer
communications experience by taking our
survey: [https://aka.ms/AzurePIRSurvey](https://aka.ms/AzurePIRSurvey)

## 12 

[11/12/2021]

Microsoft Graph - Intermittent 400-level errors accessing Graph APIs -
Mitigated

Tracking ID: PLT7-RTZ


**Summary of Impact:** Between 02:00 UTC on 12 Nov 2021 and 17:00 UTC on
15 Nov 2021, a subset of customers primarily located in the North
America and APAC geographies may have encountered intermittent 400-level
errors when attempting to access Microsoft Graph APIs.

**Preliminary Root Cause:** We determined that a recent update to
improve the underlying Microsoft Graph API infrastructure created a
configuration issue between the Microsoft Graph API interface and its
underlying Internet Information Services driver. This configuration
issue prevented calls to various APIs from completing as expected.

