warning bells.

According to a JPL spokesman, every maneuver intended to dump momentum
added a velocity error of about 0.001 meter per second, on a probe that
was traveling at a rate of tens of kilometers per second. These
deflections themselves were not the problem, but their incorrect
modeling was, when the computer was told the spacecraft had received a
force of four or five times as great as it really had.

\"Every momentum dump will introduce an additional bogus force into the
navigation software,\" *Spectrum*\'s interplanetary navigation
consultant explained. \"Ultimately the curve fit will be warped by this
constant application of a non-existent force.\"

Navigators back on Earth used radio doppler tracking to estimate the
actual course of the probe and compute the required trajectory
correction maneuvers, the TCMs. TCM-1 on 21 December was fairly large;
it had to make up for booster insertion errors, as well as to correct a
trajectory deliberately aimed away from Mars, to prevent the last stage
of the unsterilized booster from hitting the planet. But TCM-2 on 4
March was very gentle, about 0.86 m/s, in keeping with a well-navigated
on-course spacecraft.

For TCM-3 on July 23, JPL implemented a new feature of its navigation
function. The official press release referred to it as \"tuning the
spacecraft\'s autopilot.\"

Outside observers correctly interpreted this as the use of new
subroutines\--a so-called small forces model\--to get extra accuracy by
estimating minor forces such as the cross-coupled force from momentum
dumps. But if inaccurate forces had been introduced into the orbit
determination software, then the position of the spacecraft at the
moment of the burn would be in error, and so would the desired size of
the burn itself.

At the 10 November press conference, chief investigator Arthur
Stephenson explained why the initial trajectory had appeared healthy.
There had been a software error in the implementation of the small
forces model that was not fixed until April. This delay had forced JPL
to make its own estimates of the course deviation from the AMD
maneuvers, and they had done this accurately. Because of the rush to get
the small forces model operational, the testing program had been
abbreviated, Stephenson admitted. \"Had we done end-to-end testing,\" he
stated at the press conference, \"we believe this error would have been
caught.\" But the rushed and inadequate preparations left no time to do
it right.

**Feelings of unease**

*Spectrum*\'s investigation uncovered a report that one navigator wrote
a memo describing some vague uneasiness he had about the trajectory as
planning began for the TCM-3 burn on 23 July. Possibly, the unease was
due to an intuitively correct appreciation of higher-than-expected
course-error estimates.

The size of the midcourse burns was large, unlike the experience with
the Mars Global Surveyor two years earlier. In that case, the third
midcourse correction was canceled entirely, and the fourth and final one
was only 0.29 m/s. But TCM-3 for the climate observer was 3.3 m/s, and
TCM-4 was almost 2 m/s.

NASA confirmed this navigational \"unease.\" According to Stephenson,
within days of the activation of the small forces model, navigators
began to suspect something was not quite right with the spacecraft\'s
ephemeris. \"We even had a big meeting in Denver about this,\" he told
the press conference on 10 November. \"But the issue was never
resolved.\"

Although the navigators continued to express concern about the
spacecraft trajectory, NASA\'s Stephenson explained why there had been
no management response. \"They did not use the existing formal process
for such concerns,\" he stated. JPL has a special form to invoke a
so-called incident surprise and analysis procedure, and the navigators
did not follow the rules about filling out that form to document their
concerns.

Stephenson did admit that inadequate navigation team staffing was a
contributing factor to the accident because they were responsible for
three separate missions at the same time. In addition, their training in
team operations was inadequate, according to Stephenson. \"This was a
problem of transition from the era of very large teams to when teams are
very small,\" he explained.

Richard Cook, a trajectory expert at JPL, discussed the nominal flight
path with *Spectrum*. Prior to the last midcourse maneuver in September,
he reported, the probe was headed for an impact with Mars. But the TCM-4
rocket burn moved its fly-by altitude about 800 km farther away from the
center of the planet, more than enough to clear the atmosphere\--or so
the navigation computers claimed.

But even if the targeting software worked perfectly\--and some experts
believed it did\--the maneuver doomed the probe because the spacecraft
was not really where the navigators thought it was. The trajectory
errors induced by the wrong units in the small forces model made Earth
think the spacecraft was several hundred kilometers from where it
actually was. This mistake would displace the point of closest approach
to Mars by about the same amount. This was confirmed by NASA on 10
November.

After the fourth rocket burn, navigators began taking new marks in order
to determine if a final adjustment was required. This maneuver would
have been TCM-5, two days before encounter. It normally took many days
to accumulate enough marks to generate an accurate orbit, and as the
probe neared Mars, geometry conspired to reduce accuracy. When it had
left Earth, its velocity was mainly aligned directly away from Earth, so
doppler ranging measurements provided good data. But now as it neared
Mars, its velocity was mostly perpendicular to the Earth-Mars line, so
doppler data was far less precise \[Fig. 3\].

\[3\] Four trajectory correction maneuvers (TCMs) were executed in the
course of the flight to compensate in part for measurement and steering
inaccuracies. But at the end, the maneuvers were insufficient to ensure
a safe fly-by distance at Mars.

Reportedly, the first trajectory measurements after the fourth burn
showed the probe to be right on course for a 193-km close point (they
had aimed for 224 km, just to be on the safe side). Still, an error of
30 km when the expected error was less than Â±10 km may have been
slightly disturbing.

In the following days, as additional tracking marks were accumulated,
the navigation programs began to show the estimated closest point
sinking lower and lower. It looked as if the probe was drifting off
course, an impossibility if all the forces on it were properly modeled.
What was really happening was that as the probe fell towards Mars, its
increasing speed helped refine the probe\'s true path. But instead of
believing that the newer values were closer to reality, controllers
apparently chose to trust the earlier navigation, and suspect instead
that something was now going wrong with the navigation software. The
spacecraft itself, they assumed, remained on a safe trajectory.

**No final trajectory correction**

The 4 October issue of Aviation Week magazine provided detailed
navigation data from this period, based on its inside sources at JPL and
confirmed by other experts who talked anonymously with *Spectrum*.
According to the magazine, \"Several days after the TCM-4, the
navigation calculations had relatively poor convergence. The new numbers
were trending to 150-180 km\--but with uncertain confidence.\" The
phrase \"uncertain confidence\" probably means that the calculated error
bounds had gotten quite high. Yet even though some predictions were up
to 70 km off the aim point, navigators still acted as if they believed
the aiming accuracy was within 10 km.

According to Aviation Week, project management decided on 19 September
to forgo TCM-5, because of a flyby range predicted at 150 to 180 km and
a belief that the space craft would be safe to 85 km.

But the 85-km figure was not based on actual engineering analysis.
According to a control center expert who has spoken with *Spectrum*, JPL
operators put their faith in a 160-km fly-by altitude until a few hours
before encounter. Then a recomputation showed that the altitude would be
110 km. When Lockheed Martin engineers were asked to examine the effects
at this altitude, they were frightened. Atmospheric drag would probably
be enough to tumble the spacecraft and overheat it. As the spacecraft
passed behind Mars, navigators came up with a new estimate: 95 km. This
would generate heating equivalent to a bank of propane torches.

A sense of gloom descended on the controllers as they began listening
for the reacquisition of radio contact on the other side of Mars. By
then, JPL navigators had an even newer estimate\--57 km, where the
heating would be 10 times as bad as at 95 km.

*Spectrum* has been told that this decision to forgo the TCM-5
correction was flawed: \"Given expected errors in altitude targeting of
about 10 km, a spread of values over a 100-km range \[from 70 to 180
km\] should have people screaming down the halls,\" one navigation
expert told us. \"This tells you that you have no idea where your
spacecraft is, and therefore your trajectory has an unacceptable
probability of intersecting the planet\'s atmosphere. To me this says
\'aim high\' and put another 200 km in there to be safe.\"

Reportedly there were more indications of trouble. After the last burn,
when navigation was hinting at a 100-km range of uncertainty of true
position, somebody at JPL ran the data through the 1998 Mars Pathfinder
navigation code (different from the Mars probe code). It showed the
spacecraft was off course by hundreds of kilometers, which turned out to
be correct.

Asked about these indications by *Spectrum* at the 10 November press
conference, JPL officials denied any knowledge. When *Spectrum* then
asked if the main actors in the navigation misjudgments could now be
allowed to speak freely with the press, JPL director Edward Stone stated
coldly that \"everyone\'s full attention must be on the December 3
\[Mars Polar Lander\] landing.\" Another journalist jumped on what he
called this \"artfully unresponsive\" answer and got Stone to concede
that perhaps some time next spring, after the final report is issued,
the investigation gag order might be lifted.

Rumors even assert that the leader of the navigation team, Pat Esposito,
had recommended making the TCM-5 burn to raise the fly-by range \"just
in case.\" He declined comment when phoned by Lee Dye, retired Los
Angeles Times science editor and now a contributor to the abcnews.com
science Web page. Dye then asked Thomas Gavin, deputy director of JPL\'s
space and earth science directorate, about rumors that Esposito had
personally called Gavin to urge making the burn. Gavin vehemently denied
it. \"I thought the telephone line was going to vaporize,\" Dye
reported.

NASA presented a strikingly different version of the dispute. Stephenson
admitted that in fact the navigation team had verbally requested the
TCM-5 maneuver be performed. Permission was denied\-- \"properly,\"
Stephenson asserted\--because the team was not prepared to perform the
burn; no procedures for the fast response needed had been put in place
or practiced. Besides, Stephenson continued, \"the navigation team was
not clear on what the problem was, but they did not see it as a case of
possible loss of spacecraft.\" He concluded: \"Unfortunately, maybe they
didn\'t see it as a big issue, so they didn\'t make it into a big
issue.\"

JPL director Stone endorsed this. \"Even on the day of encounter it was
not clear to anyone that we were on the wrong trajectory,\" he insisted.
\"No one.\"

This is the remaining inconsistency between NASA\'s official version of
what happened and the one reconstructed by *Spectrum*. Our conclusion is
that adequate doubts had been raised to require the TCM-5 burn, even in
an emergency mode. Further, according to participants in this tragedy of
errors, by the time the probe reached Mars, those most \"in the know\"
were persuaded it was already doomed by its sick trajectory\--but by
then it was too late.

All this information has modified perceptions of the widely published
images of glum space controllers waiting hopefully for the probe to
regain contact after it passed behind Mars. They were not astonished, or
caught by surprise by an anomaly whose cause they could only guess. They
had seen the most recent tracking data, which spelled doom, and they
were hoping not for the spacecraft to emerge but for a miracle, which
never materialized.

As for the Mars Polar Lander, JPL controllers suspended all correction
maneuvers early in October, pending assessment of the navigation error
on the Mars Observer. But by 11 October they were satisfied they could
avoid making the same mistake again, and after a few final delays,
performed the burn on 30 October.

A NASA press release explained this new confidence this way: \"Extensive
analysis of spacecraft data by the flight teams at NASA\'s Jet
Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., and Lockheed Martin
Astronautics in Denver, Colo., has confirmed that the lander does not
have the same unit conversion error that contributed to the loss of the
Mars Climate Orbiter last month.\"

Although NASA suggested that because the lander had no reaction wheels,
it was immune to the subtle problems that seduced the orbiter\'s
navigators, this was not true. In its long cruise from Earth to Mars,
the lander still had to fire attitude thrusters to stay pointed in
space. True, the lander\'s structure was much more symmetrical than the
orbiter\'s, and this greatly reduced the amount of photon pressure
torque that had to be counterbalanced. But these unbalanced firings
still induced small translational forces. Its small forces model still
had to work properly if those disturbances were to be properly modeled.
However, with the lesson of the orbiter behind them, there\'s every
reason to expect that JPL navigators have avoided making the same
mistake twice.

**Roots of the error**

Even if what ruined the Mars Climate Observer mission can be overcome,
it should not be forgotten. The analogies with the Challenger disaster
are illuminating, as several direct participants in the flight have
independently told *Spectrum*.

In that situation, managers chose to cling to assumptions of
\"goodness\" even as engineers insisted the situation had strayed too
far into untested conditions, too far \"away from goodness.\" The
engineers were challenged to \"prove it ISN\'T safe,\" when every dictum
of sound flight safety teaches that safety is a quality that must be
established\--and reestablished under new conditions\--by sound analysis
of all hazards. \"Take off your engineering hat and put on your
management hat\" was the advice given to one wavering worker, who
eventually went along with the launch decision.

Similarly, various versions of the trajectory debate in the final days
of the flight indicate that in the face of uncertainty, decision-makers
clung to the assumption of goodness; assertions of trajectory trouble
had to be proved rigorously. Just the opposite attitude should have
ruled the debate.

Other complaints about JPL go more directly to its existing style. One
of *Spectrum*\'s chief sources for this story blamed that style on
\"JPL\'s process of \'cowboy\' programming, and their insistence on
using 30-year-old trajectory code that can neither be run, seen, or
verified by anyone or anything external to JPL.\" He went on: \"Sure,
someone at Lockheed made a small error. If JPL did real software
configuration and control, the error never would have gotten by the
door.\" Other sources commented that this problem was particularly
severe within the JPL navigation team, rather than being a JPL-wide
complaint.

In the meantime, out in space, where did all this leave the Mars Climate
Observer? Behind Mars and out of sight from Earth, halfway through its
braking burn, it encountered a far thicker Martian atmosphere than had
been expected. Something catastrophic must have occurred. At first,
experts thought it might have burned up like a meteorite, scattering its
fragments across the Martian north pole.

Later, JPL calculated that rising engine temperatures from atmospheric
impact would have triggered an automatic shutdown, followed by
structural failure from deceleration loads. Alternatively, the
aerodynamic torque on the spacecraft\'s solar panel may have twisted the
craft into a fatal tumble.

In an analysis done by the spacecraft\'s builders at Lockheed-Martin,
the spacecraft was almost certainly destroyed when its hydrazine
propellant tank heated to the point of self-ignition of the remaining
fuel. \"There was enough explosive force there to level a city block,\"
one engineer told *Spectrum*, so the spacecraft probably was blown apart
into shards of scrap metal that soon burned up in the Martian
atmosphere.

Whether the debris burned up, fell to the surface, or grazed the
atmosphere fast enough to have passed out into space on the other side
of Mars is not known. For now, it is truly \"lost in space.\"

But if space mission operators learn their harsh lessons better, the
exploration of Mars will push ahead. Sometime in the next century, or
later, voyagers with far greater range and far sharper sensors than our
own may find the observer\'s remains and come to know exactly how it
died. It\'s enough, now, to know just why it died.


