#   Why the Mars Probe went off course 

## Far more was at fault with the Mars Climate Orbiter than a simple mixup in converting metric and British units 


[01 Dec 1999]

19 min read


![Why the Mars Probe went off
course](https://spectrum.ieee.org/media-library/image.gif?id=26775464&width=1200&height=1624){.rm-lazyloadable-image
.rm-hero-media fetchpriority="high" role="img"
aria-label="Why the Mars Probe went off course"
style="object-fit: cover;" width="430" height="582"}

**Aircraft accident investigators** have a special term for a
particularly insidious type of accident\--CFIT, or controlled flight
into terrain. It occurs when human error in the cockpit, in the traffic
control tower, or in the flight planning process in effect flies a
perfectly good airplane right into the ground.

In the past 40 years, space flight has encountered all sorts of failure
modes. Propulsion systems have leaked and exploded. Power systems have
short-circuited. Observation instruments have failed to work or have
been pointed in wrong directions. But until this year no CFIT had
occurred in outer space.

Then, on 23 September, through a series of still-baffling errors, flight
controllers at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, a California Institute of
Technology facility under contract to NASA, sent erroneous steering
commands to the Mars Climate Observer as it neared the target planet.
Obeying blindly like all true robots, the probe, metaphorically
speaking, marched off the cliff and was destroyed.

NASA assigned three separate teams to investigate the embarrassing, US
\$125 million debacle and determine its cause. Preliminary public
statements faulted a slip-up between the probe\'s builders and its
operators, a failure to convert the English units of measurement used in
construction into the metric units used for operation.

After six weeks, on 10 November, NASA officials released their
preliminary findings. However, an *[IEEE
Spectrum](https://spectrum.ieee.org/)* investigation had been going on
separately, using unofficial sources associated with the program and
independent experts. *Spectrum* quickly learned that far more had gone
wrong than just a units conversion error. A critical flaw was a program
management grown too confident and too careless, even to the point of
missing opportunities to avoid the disaster.


As reconstructed by *Spectrum*, ground controllers ignored a string of
indications that something was seriously wrong with the craft\'s
trajectory, over a period of weeks if not months. But managers demanded
that worriers and doubters \"prove something was wrong,\" even though
classic and fundamental principles of mission safety should have
demanded that they themselves, in the presence of significant doubts,
properly \"prove all is right\" with the flight. As a result, the probe
was about 100 kilometers off course at the end of its
500-million-kilometer voyage\--more than enough to accidentally hit the
planet\'s atmosphere and be destroyed.

Edward Stone, director of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), in
Pasadena, Calif., did not try to dodge responsibility for events. \"Our
inability to recognize and correct this simple error has had major
implications,\" he stated in a 24 September press release from the lab.
\"We have under way a thorough investigation to understand this issue.\"
As is normal in such cases, all data was impounded for use in the
accident investigations, and all participants in the mission were
ordered not to talk to the press.

Even at that time, NASA managers hinted that much more had gone wrong.
\"People sometimes make errors,\" said Edward Weiler, NASA associate
administrator for space science. \"The problem here was not the error;
it was the failure of NASA\'s systems engineering, and the checks and
balances in our processes, to detect the error. That\'s why we lost the
spacecraft.\"

Carl Pilcher, science director for solar system exploration at NASA
headquarters in Washington, D.C., agreed: \"Human error occurs all the
time. But even so we have a tremendous success rate because we have
systems that detect and correct the errors. The problem here is that our
system failed to do that.\"

And Thomas Gavin, deputy director for space and earth science at NASA\'s
Jet Propulsion Laboratory, added: \"A single error should not bring down
a \$125 million mission.\"

In an internal memo dated 18 October, not intended for non-JPL readers,
a laboratory official summarized the way thinking was developing:
\"There might have been some overconfidence, inadequate robustness in
our processes, designs, or operations, inadequate modeling and
simulation of the operations, and failure to heed early warnings.\" No,
it was not a simple mistake at all, as NASA finally explained in detail
on 10 November.

**One down, one to go**

NASA had urgently needed an explanation for the failure since a sister
probe was also nearing Mars. Due to arrive on 3 December, the Mars Polar
Lander needed to approach with even greater precision, since it would
directly enter the Red Planet\'s atmosphere for a landing near the
southern pole. A trajectory error even a tenth the size of the one that
had doomed the climate observer would also destroy the polar lander.


The Mars Climate Observer\--the first weather satellite for another
planet\--had not been intended to enter Mars\'s atmosphere. With an
orbital observation program several years long stretching ahead of it,
the aim had been for the probe to swing around behind Mars just above
its atmosphere. Then its directional rockets were to fire for 15
minutes, to slow it down so that it was captured by the planet\'s
gravity.

Next, a series of skimming motions across the upper atmosphere were to
lower the probe\'s orbit and adjust it till it became circular, the
better to chart the planet\'s weather patterns and search out signs of
past and present water. The climate probe was also to serve as a
communications relay (in the UHF band) for other probes on the planet\'s
surface.

The launch of the Mars Climate Observer had gone according to plan. A
Delta-II booster lifted it from Cape Canaveral, in Florida, on 11
December 1998. At the beginning of its interplanetary cruise, its 629-kg
total weight included 291 kg of rocket propellant, the amount needed to
slow it down on arrival. It carried a cargo of two science instruments,
namely, a color camera and an infrared radiometer (a copy of an
instrument lost when the Mars Observer probe disappeared in 1993); a
computer with a RAD6000 processor (a radiation-hardened version of the
PowerPC chip used in some Macintosh computer models); and other standard
spacecraft systems for thermal control, attitude control, and
propulsion.

Two features dominated the probe\'s appearance: its high-gain antenna
and its single solar-power array \[Fig. 1\]. The 1.3-meter dish used
microwave X-band signals with a 15-W transmitter, giving a peak data
rate of about 110 kb/s. Uplink was at 7172 MHz, and downlink was at 8427
MHz; the carrier signal was phase modulated and the subcarrier was
phase-shift keyed. The solar panels, 5.5 meters from tip to tip, relied
on gallium arsenide cells to provide as much as 1000 W of power,
supplemented by a 12-cell 16-Ah nickel-hydrogen battery.

\[1\] Among the Mars Climate Observer\'s elements were momentum wheels
and jet thrusters. The wheels \[not shown\] were used to keep the craft
aimed in the right direction. The small gas jets were fired periodically
to counteract the unwanted turning of the spacecraft when the momentum
wheels swung it too far around.

**The route planned**

On its arrival near Mars, the probe was aimed to pass above the
planet\'s north pole, within 200 km of the surface but beyond the
atmosphere. This last, though much thinner at the surface than Earth\'s
atmosphere, still extended fairly far out because of Mars\'s lower
gravity. It was not a particularly challenging route. Previous probes
had been guided very accurately\--for example, in 1997 the Mars Global
Surveyor, still orbiting the planet today, missed its target altitude by
a mere 4 km.

During the long cruise outward from home, flight controllers had
navigated using the spacecraft\'s radio link to Earth for orbit
determination. Motion along the line of sight was measured using the
doppler shift in the radio link, and a series of range measurements over
a period of about two weeks could be accurately converted into the
probe\'s actual flight path, or ephemeris.

Using knowledge of the forces acting on the spacecraft, computer
programs could then calculate the flight path forward in time to see how
the craft moved relative to Mars. Controllers could also \"target\" a
change in the probe\'s motion in order to shift its future position
relative to Mars, and then command the probe\'s rocket engines to carry
out the prescribed course change. These were called trajectory
correction maneuvers, or TCM burns.

As mentioned, accurate orbit determination and targeting any course
changes required a complete knowledge of all forces acting on the probe.
With this, the computer programs generate both an ephemeris and an error
estimate for the flight path based on how widely scattered the
navigation marks are. It was at the first step\--where the forces acting
on the spacecraft were input in the wrong units, according to
preliminary NASA explanations after the debacle\--that the computers
were led astray. But what doomed the spacecraft, experts believe, was
errors in human judgment that led to a poor grasp of the navigation
uncertainty, in general, and of the meaning of the great range that
existed in the calculation of the altitude over Mars, in particular.

**Momentum wheels and jets**

Like many other spacecraft in terrestrial orbit and beyond, the Mars
Climate Observer maintained control of its attitude, or orientation in
space, through the use of momentum wheels. These metal disks, measuring
about 10 cm in diameter, and resembling the wheel in a child\'s
gyroscope, are spun up or down by electric motors. Top speed is 3000
revolutions per minute. With one momentum wheel for each axis, they
serve to turn the spacecraft in different directions or to steady its
orientation against disturbing torques, and do so gently and with fine
control. Gas jet thrusters, which are also available to turn the
spacecraft as needed, do so forcefully and with coarser accuracy.

If the forces behind the reorientation of the spacecraft and its
resistance to torque were random, the devices could spin up and slow
down within their range of operating speeds, and this process could go
on forever. But the primary torque on the Mars spacecraft was from
sunlight itself (from photon pressure), which was not random. This was
particularly significant because the asymmetry of the spacecraft\'s
solar array gave rise to a disturbing force in a single direction. To
counter this, some of the momentum wheels had to spin faster and faster.

Periodically, one or more of the wheels would come close to spinning too
fast for safety, and the momentum would have to be dumped\--a process
that could happen as often as once or twice a day. Dumping involves
deliberately spinning the wheels down, and so also turning the
spacecraft, while at the same time firing small gas jets to counteract
this turning force. JPL calls this an angular momentum desaturation
([AMD](https://spectrum.ieee.org/tag/amd)) maneuver.

Momentum wheels are used on unmanned and manned spacecraft. The Solar
and Heliospheric Observatory (SOHO) has them, and in mid-1998 lost
control during a momentum dump. The Skylab space station (1973-4) had a
larger version, as does Russia\'s Mir space station, on which they are
called gyrodynes.

For dumping some of the momentum stored in these wheels, spacecraft near
the Earth can dispense with the jet firings, and the propellant needed
to supply them. Instead, they can perform the operation fuel-cost free
by utilizing other known torques. Sometimes they use the force due to
the gravity gradient along the length of the spacecraft that results
from being very close to the massive Earth. Sometimes they use magnetic
torquers\--a device that has a current running through a wire loop\--to
push against Earth\'s magnetic field.

But some momentum dumps also occur that use propulsive attitude control
by firing jet thrusters. In deep space the method is the only practical
one, despite its imperfections.

The use of jet thrusters for attitude control raises further operational
issues. In a world of perfect symmetry and unlimited payload size and
budget, a spacecraft could rotate cleanly about its center of mass
(often carelessly called its center of gravity) if opposing ends were
equipped with jets and if those jets pointed in opposite directions and
were set at right angles to the axis to be turned.

In the real world, rotational jets may not be arranged in such a
theoretically perfect alignment. Only one set, at one end of the
spacecraft, might be installed; symmetrically opposed thrusting would
then be unavailable for achieving pure rotation. And even then, the jets
may not be able to point precisely at right angles to the spacecraft\'s
axis because of mechanical constraints or concerns over where the jet
plume may impinge on spacecraft appendages.

On the Mars Climate Observer, four separate clusters of jets were
located around the vehicle\'s waist \[[Fig. 1,
again](/img/marsf1-1343930311358.gif "© 1999 IEEE Spectrum magazine"){rel="lightbox"}\].
However, because of the large solar array extending from one side, the
craft\'s center of mass did not coincide with the center point of the
waist. Thus there was a significant imbalance each time these small
thrusters fired.

This arrangement results in what space engineers call a cross coupling
of forces between rotational axes and pure translation (where
translation means moving the spacecraft away from its original location
or course) \[Fig. 2\]. For the climate probe, it did indeed turn upon
firing a jet that was mounted at some distance from its center and
pointed at right angles to the axis to be turned. But the fired jet
fails to do exactly as desired, for it also slightly pushes the
spacecraft\--it cross-couples into translation\--in the direction
opposite of the gas jet\'s thrust. (Most of the thrust does go into
turning the spacecraft about the center of mass.)

\[2\] If the thrusters could be fired symmetrically \[left\], the
spacecraft would rotate around its center of mass and its change in
direction could be readily calculated. In actuality, the thrust was
asymmetrical, causing both rotation and translation \[below\], which led
to a problem with knowing the magnitude of the course deviation.

At the 10 November news conference, NASA revealed even more damning
information about this issue. Fully aware of the issue of asymmetric
torques, the original designers of the probe had planned to neutralize
them by slowly spinning the spacecraft about its long axis,
perpendicular to the sun (the so-called barbecue mode). Some time later,
concern over a potential shortfall in the electric power budget caused
the design team to change this balancing spin to a constant
face-onto-the-sun orientation. There were no navigation experts on the
team at this point (they were in fact not added until two months before
launch, and had no significant knowledge of the spacecraft\'s
peculiarities even then). So the change was made without opposition.

**Mars\'s two measurement systems**

Because it used momentum wheels for fine pointing control, the Mars
Climate Observer also performed momentum dump operations periodically
during its cruise out to its destination. The flight controllers at JPL
observed the jet firings that occurred to control the probe\'s
orientation during these maneuvers. And they then would have taken into
account the minor\--but critical\--translational cross-coupling forces
that the jet firings had induced.

According to early NASA statements about the failure, the trajectory
problem began at this point. The spacecraft experts back at the factory
had calculated how much translational force each rotation jet
accidentally induced when it fired, and the amount was proportional to
how long it went on firing, which JPL controllers easily measured. They
then could multiply the known force by the observed duration of its
application, and update the spacecraft\'s navigation computer with the
calculated course change.

NASA did not originally specify the actual units used, but the unit that
JPL would have wanted was the newton (the force that accelerates a 1
kilogram mass at a rate of 1 meter per second per second).

The corresponding British unit was the pound force. If the values
provided by the spacecraft engineers at Lockheed Martin Astronautics
Co., Denver, Colo., had been in pound force, they would have been too
large by a factor of 4.45.

But in engineering terms, these two values are still of the same order
of magnitude. In other words, there is no really gross mismatch in the
scale of calculations made with the one or the other\--the kind of
mismatch that can provide an intuitive hint that something doesn\'t add
up. These two units were close enough in magnitude that the
unintentional substitution of one for the other apparently rang no
