#  failing like never before](http://42gems.com/blog "failing like never before")

##  Intel FDIV Bug

A few years or so back, I put up a bunch of my high school and early
college papers on this blog (they\'re under the \"literature\"
category). Its a sad state of affairs when looking back my high school
papers, that I realized my writing skills were significantly better back
in high school. But anyways, heres a paper I wrote for my engineering
ethics course. Its not my best work, and it certainly lacks the finish
of my old high school stuff, but its passable.

**To the Intel Corp. Board of Directors: A Post Mortem Report of the
Pentium Flaw\
Abstract**

The floating point division flaw in the original Intel Pentium CPU,
which resulted in some floating point division operations being
calculated improperly, was a result of a few poor engineering decisions
and while avoidable, was not condemnable. The subsequent decisions made
by Intel executives, to keep the flaw hidden and then to downplay its
importance, were however, morally flawed. While Intel executives adhered
to a utilitarian ethical framework, they forgot to consider the impact
their decisions would have on Intel's public image. Had Intel executives
followed a combination of rights and utilitarian ethics, where the
rights of the customer are upheld while the company's wellbeing is still
valued, executives would have reached the correct decision, which was to
offer a full "no questions asked" replacement policy at the very first
discovery of the flaw.\

**The Pentium "FDIV Bug"**

Given certain types of input data, the floating point division
instructions on the original Intel Pentium CPU would generate slightly
erroneous results. This result was dubbed by the public as the "FDIV
Bug," as one of the assembly language instructions affected by the bug
was the FDIV instruction. Although Intel initially attempted to keep
information regarding the flaw hidden, it eventually became public
knowledge. The subsequent actions of Intel executives regarding their
handling of the flaw were morally questionable and ultimately resulted
in great damage being done to Intel's public image. A different set of
ethical frameworks would have allowed Intel executives to have reached
the correct decision.\
Using the basic Microsoft Windows calculator, a Pentium user could check
for the presence of the flaw by performing the following calculation:

(4195835 \* 3145727) / 3145727

The expected result of dividing a number by itself is one, so the
equation above should yield a result of 4,195,835 but the flawed Pentium
Floating Point Unit (FPU) produced a value of 4,195,579; an error of
0.006%. Not all calculations performed by the FDIV instruction on a
Pentium CPU were incorrect however. The occurrence and degree of
inaccuracy of the floating point division calculations were highly
dependent on the input data and specific divide instruction used, and in
most cases, the flaw was not apparent at all. According to Intel Corp.,
the flaw would only be encountered once every 27,000 years under normal
use, although other groups have produced significantly different failure
rates.\
The "FDIV Bug" did not affect Intel CPUs predating the Pentium, as the
flaw was a defect in a new algorithm that was intended to provide
improved floating point performance over the Intel 486 (the predecessor
to the Pentium). The Pentium used a new radix 4 SRT algorithm (named
after its creators Sweeney, Robertson, and Tocher) in its floating point
division operations, which required the use of a lookup table to improve
calculation speed (Intel Corp. Section 4). This lookup table was
generated prior to assembly and then loaded into a hardware Programmable
Lookup Array (PLA) on the Pentium chip. However, the script which
downloaded the lookup table into the PLAs had a bug in it that caused
some lookup table entries to be omitted from the PLAs. Consequently,
floating point division instructions that required the missing entries
from the lookup table would produce erroneous values. This flaw has
since been fixed and the "FDIV Bug" is no longer apparent in newer Intel
CPUs.

The Pentium flaw should have been easily discoverable in early testing
of the CPU, but there was also a mistake in Intel's proofs for the
Pentium FPU. Intel engineers attempted to simplify testing, and assumed
that the sign ("+" or "-") of a number doesn't enter into division
operations except in the last step. Thus, the proof for the Pentium only
checked half of the PLA, and assumed (incorrectly) that the other half
of the PLA was simply the mirror image of what was checked (Price P. 2).
Unfortunately, the untested half of the PLA contained the missing
entries. The two easily discoverable flaws, one in the PLA loading
script and the other in the PLA proof, conspired to hide each other from
Intel engineers so that the Pentium's flaw was not discovered until
after production of the CPU began.

**Events Surrounding the Flaw**

Intel Corp. discovered the flaw in the Pentium's floating point unit
through testing, in June of 1994 (after production of the chip), but
chose to keep the information private instead of disclosing it to their
customers (Markoff). Although Intel modified the design of the Pentium,
the modified chips did not begin to reach the market until November of
1994, and the sales of flawed chips were not halted. Dr. Thomas R.
Nicely of Lynchburg College also independently discovered the "FDIV Bug"
in June of 1994 and attempted to bring it to the attention of Intel
Corp. in October of that year, whereupon an Intel representative
confirmed the existence of the flaw and then ceased to provide Dr.
Nicely with any more information (Nicely). Nicely then proceeded to make
the Pentium floating point unit's flaw known to the public via e-mail,
causing news of the Pentium flaw to spread quickly. Concerned Pentium
owners who learned of the flaw were told by Intel that the flaw was
inconsequential and that no replacement policy was being
offered.[]

By late November, less than a month after Nicely's first e-mail was sent
out, the New York Times published an article entitled "Flaw Undermines
Accuracy of Pentium Chips" and Intel's mistake became almost common
knowledge. At the same time, Intel began offering replacements for free
to Pentium owners who could prove that they needed an unflawed chip to
able to perform their work properly (Fleddermann P. 25). At this point
in time, over two million flawed Pentium chips had been sold, and
offering free replacements of all flawed Pentium chips would have cut
sharply into Intel's profit margin. However, most Pentium owners were
unsatisfied and even angered by Intel's replacement policy since very
few computer users fulfilled Intel's vague replacement requirements.
Also, many Pentium owners felt that it was unfair for Intel to place
customers under scrutiny (by requiring that a customer prove their need
for a "perfect" chip), in order to resolve a situation created by Intel
themselves.\
Matters grew worse for Intel, when IBM claimed that their studies showed
the Pentium's flaw could be encountered as often as once every 24 days
under normal usage, and that because of the flaw they would be
suspending sales of Pentium based computers (Flynn). Public outcry
continued to mount until finally, in December of 1994, Intel issued an
apology to their customers and set aside \$420 million to cover the
costs of a "no questions asked" replacement program of all affected
Pentium chips. Surprisingly enough, a relatively small number of Pentium
owners actually made use of the replacement program.\
Ethical Analysis

The Pentium "FDIV Bug" was a result of a few poor engineering decisions,
and not a lapse in ethical judgment. However, Intel made numerous
decisions following the discovery of the flaw that were ethically
questionable. While making decisions regarding the Pentium flaw,
managers at Intel appeared to have been following a utilitarian ethical
framework. In a utilitarian ethical framework, the decision that
produces the greatest good while minimizing harm to people is favored.
Utilitarian ethics essentially attempts to "weigh" the positive and
negative consequences of a decision.\
When Intel first discovered the Pentium's FPU flaw, they had the option
of either making the flaw known or keeping it a secret. Intel managers
apparently felt that the flaw was so hard to detect, that if they never
told anyone, nobody would ever discover it. Of course, informing the
public of the flaw would have cost Intel money as they would have been
forced to provide replacements. Thus, Intel managers decided that by
keeping the flaw secret nobody would be harmed because the public
wouldn't know, and Intel would benefit by not having to spend money
replacing flawed chips. The thought process of Intel executives appears
to be clear and logical, but unfortunately, they forgot certain key
details.\
When Nicely uncovered the Pentium FDIV flaw and spread the news of it
across the Internet, Intel was faced with the choice of either
apologizing for the flaw and offering replacements, or denying customers
a replacement plan for flawed Pentium CPUs. Clearly, Intel executives
felt that offering customers a replacement plan would only do "good" to
a small portion of customers and would cost Intel a good deal of money.
By refusing to replace flawed chips, Intel executives continued to
believe that they were doing the most good for the most people (in this
case, Intel) and doing little harm to customers since very few customers
would be affected by the flaw. When the cries of the general public
became more and more excited, Intel finally decided to offer a limited
replacement policy to those people few people who would actually be
affected the flaw. Because so many people were expressing their dislike
of Intel's policy, Intel executives must have felt that by offering a
limited replacement policy they could improve the company's public
image, while costing the company a small amount of money and doing
"good" to a small number of customers.

It was not until the voice of the public rose to a fury, that Intel
executives realized that the company's public image (and stock) were
falling fast as a result of their handling of the Pentium flaw, and the
only way to rectify the situation was to offer full, free replacements
of affected Pentium chips. Although doing so would only do "good" to a
small subset of customers actually affected, and would end up costing a
great deal of money, Intel executives must have decided that the
company's public image was worth the money.

When following utilitarian frameworks, it is necessary to weigh out
every single consequence of an action, making it a very difficult
ethical standard to properly adhere to. Realizing all the consequences
of an action and then determining the importance of a consequence is a
difficult task, and one that people rarely get right every single time.
Throughout their handling of the Pentium's FPU flaw, Intel executives
forgot (until the end at least) to consider how their decision would
affect the company's public image, and how valuable the company's image
was. Had Intel considered this from the start, they might have realized
that hoping nobody would find the flaw was not worth the risk to their
public image, and would have offered a full replacement plan
immediately.

Because utilitarian ethics is such a difficult ethical framework, Intel
executives should have adopted a set of ethical frameworks based on both
utilitarian ethics and rights ethics. Under rights ethics, the action
that protects and respects the rights of those affected, is the favored
decision. A combination of the two ethical frameworks would have allowed
Intel to still consider the good of the company while upholding the
moral rights of their customers. Although it was well within Intel's
rights to deny customers a replacement plan, it is the right of a
customer to know about any known flaws in a product they paid for. It is
also the customer's right to expect that the product they bought
functions properly as advertised. Had Intel executives been adhering to
a combination of utilitarian and rights ethics, they would have realized
from the start that hiding the flaw was wrong, and that the moral action
was to offer a replacement plan.\
Clearly, the action that Intel executives should have taken following
the discovery of the Pentium flaw was to immediately make the flaw known
to the public, apologize for it, and offer a full replacement plan for
affected chips. These actions would have preserved the company image,
placated irate customers and resolved an issue for affected customers,
at the cost of a fairly large sum of money. Intel would have been able
to uphold the moral rights of their customers, while minimizing harm and
maximizing the good done. As it turned out unfortunately, Intel was
forced to offer a full replacement plan in the end, but were unable to
completely salvage their company's reputation.

Fleddermann, Charles B. Engineering Ethics. New Jersey: Prentice Hall,
1999.

