## Incident affecting Google Cloud Networking, Hybrid Connectivity 

Global : Cloud Networking faced severe packet loss

Incident began at **2022-05-20 13:47** and ended at **2022-05-20 14:07**
(all times are **US/Pacific**).

2 Jun 2022

12:11 PDT

**INCIDENT REPORT**

**SUMMARY:**

On Friday, 20 May 2022 at 13:47 US/Pacific, Google Cloud Networking
experienced intermittent packet loss for traffic between multiple cloud
regions for a duration of 20 minutes. The issue was identified and
mitigated automatically by 14:07 US/Pacific.

We understand this issue has affected our valued customers and users,
and we apologize to those who were affected.

**ROOT CAUSE:**

Google's production backbone is a global network that enables
connectivity for all user-facing traffic via Points of Presence (POPs)
or internet exchanges.

A failure of a component on a fiber path from one of the central US
gateway campuses in Google's production backbone led to a decrease in
available network bandwidth between the gateway and multiple edge
locations, causing packet loss while the backbone automatically moved
traffic onto remaining paths.

The network topology in this region is being augmented, and the
second-best path has not completed its augmentation. This meant some
traffic needed to reroute onto the third-best path, which led to an
extended traffic migration period. This disruption was more severe than
we had anticipated, and is the subject of remediation actions below.

**REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:**

Google's automated repair mechanisms detected the decrease in available
network bandwidth on Friday, 20 May 2022 at 13:47 US/Pacific and
automatically routed the traffic through alternate links. The traffic
rerouting completed on Friday, 20 May 2022 at 14:06 US/Pacific,
mitigating the issue.

While our automated mechanisms worked as intended and recovered the
traffic without manual intervention, we understand that the scope of
impact caused by this event affected our customers.

We have been working on optimizing our global network to minimize the
time spent automatically reconfiguring around failures like this (known
as \"convergence time\"). While we have made progress, efforts to
improve are ongoing. We continue to ensure that the current technology
is optimally configured to minimize the frequency and severity of these
issues.

In this network region, we intend to complete the augmentation by 11
July 2022, which will return the network to the intended topology where
any single fiber path failure can be rerouted quickly onto the
second-best path.

We will also build automatic analysis to ensure that the network
topology during augmentation always supports fast convergence.

Google is committed to quickly and continually improving our technology
and operations to prevent service disruptions. We appreciate your
patience and apologize again for the impact to your organization. We
thank you for your business.

**DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:**

-   Google Cloud Networking - Affected customers would have observed
    packet loss for ingress and egress traffic to and from US Central
    Cloud regions from 13:47 to 14:07 US/Pacific.

-   Cloud VPN - Affected customers would have experienced latency and
    errors for cross region VPN with global routing from 13:47 to 14:07
    US/Pacific. Intra-region traffic for Classic and HA VPN would not
    have been affected.

-   Cloud Router - Affected customers would have observed delays in
    global routing propagation from 13:47 to 14:07 US/Pacific.

-   Cloud Interconnect - Affected customers would have experienced
    latency and errors from 13:47 to 14:07 US/Pacific.

-   Google Cloud Storage - Affected customers would have experienced
    elevated latency, HTTP 500 errors, or transient API errors from
    13:47 to 14:17 US/Pacific.

-   Cloud SQL - Affected customers would have experienced failures for
    Export, Update, and Delete operations as well as delayed data
    replication in us-west1 from 13:53 to 14:13 US/Pacific.

-   Messages - Affected customers would have experienced service
    availability issues from 13:49 to 14:05 US/Pacific.



23 May 2022

14:33 PDT

**Mini Incident Report**

We apologize for the inconvenience this service disruption/outage may
have caused. We would like to provide some information about this
incident below. Please note, this information is based on our best
knowledge at the time of posting and is subject to change as our
investigation continues. If you have experienced impact outside of what
is listed below, please reach out to Google Support by opening a case
<https://cloud.google.com/support> or help article
<https://support.google.com/a/answer/1047213>.

(All Times US/Pacific)

**Incident Start:** 20 May 2022 13:47

**Incident End:** 20 May 2022 14:07

**Duration:** 20 minutes

**Affected Services and Features:**

-   Google Cloud Networking
-   Cloud VPN
-   Cloud Router
-   Cloud Interconnect
-   Google Cloud Storage
-   Cloud SQL
-   Messages

**Regions/Zones:** Multiple regions

**Description:**

Google Cloud Networking experienced intermittent packet loss for some
transit traffic affecting inter-region connectivity for multiple cloud
regions, which lasted 20 minutes. From preliminary analysis, the root
cause is a hardware issue on an optical (amplification) component
affecting Google\'s user facing backbone. The issue was identified and
mitigated by our automated repair mechanism without manual intervention.

**Customer Impact:**

-   Google Cloud Networking - Affected customers would have observed
    packet loss for Ingress and egress traffic to and from central US
    cloud regions.

-   Cloud VPN - Affected customers would have experienced latency and
    errors for cross region VPN with global routing. Intra-region
    traffic for Classic and HA VPN would not have been affected.

-   Cloud Router - Affected customers would have observed delays in
    global routing propagation.

-   Cloud Interconnect - Affected customers would have experienced
    latency and errors.

-   Google Cloud Storage - Affected customers would have experienced
    elevated latency, HTTP 500 errors, or transient API errors.

-   Cloud SQL - Affected customers would have experienced failures for
    Export, Update, and Delete operations as well as delayed data
    replication in us-west1.

-   Messages - Affected customers would have experienced service
    availability issues.



20 May 2022

14:52 PDT

The issue with Google Cloud Networking has been resolved for all
affected users as of Friday, 2022-05-20 14:07 US/Pacific.

Affected customers would have experienced high latency, timeouts and
errors.

We thank you for your patience while we worked on resolving the issue.



20 May 2022

14:44 PDT

Summary: Global : Cloud Networking faced severe packet loss

Description: We\'ve received a report of an issue with Google Cloud
Networking as of Friday, 2022-05-20 13:47 US/Pacific.

We will provide more information by Friday, 2022-05-20 14:45 US/Pacific.

Diagnosis: Customers may have encountered elevated latency errors

Workaround: None at this time.

-   All times are US/Pacific

