described as alpha-level software in various states of disarray (coin
daemons...bleh).

And in Bitcoinland, indeed, and there is no guide book.

Admittedly, as a non-engineer myself, I can only occasionally glimpse
the magnificence of what we're building. I wish I could take credit. To
our team reading this, you have engineered an amazing machine and should
be very proud of it.

And now here is where the story deepens.

Around mid-day on Friday, the hacker responds to my email (remember I
had asked him how he did it...)

> From: rovion.vavilov@fastmail.com (noted new domain)\
> To: Erik Voorhees erik@shapeshift.io\
> Subject: ShapeShift Hack...
>
> "One word: Bob"

That was the entirety of that first email, but we were stunned. For a
moment, we thought, "Is Bob the hacker?" Quickly, that notion gave way
to the more likely answer: that Bob sold or gave away our information to
a hacker, who then exploited it.

Bob betrayed us. He betrayed his privileged position, profiting directly
from the destruction of those who trusted him. He stole, lied, ran away,
and then after being afforded a period of time long enough to reflect
upon his actions, decided to betray us again for a few more scraps in
his pathetic bowl. Hackers gonna hack, but it takes a certain variety of
bastard to ascend to a trusted position, work face to face with a team,
receive a salary and confidence from that team, and then screw them all
for barely enough money to buy a Tesla. Oh yeah, and then abandon a dog
to starve alone, likely soon to be put down by animal services.

Watch out for these people in your lives. If you suspect them, sever
ties quickly.

Anyway, after herculean efforts, we had everything ready by Friday
night, 24 hrs later. We launched the site on yet a new provider, who
we'll call HostCo. Despite a couple glitchy bugs, the system was
running. We had told the public about the hack and decided to release
more details once we studied the compromised environment in more detail
later.

Exchange orders started up immediately. We breathed a sigh of relief. I
fell asleep around 1am and slept peacefully, exhausted from the ordeal
and very proud of the team.

Then it was Saturday 9am, and I start emerging from slumber. My phone
rings. It was Greg.

> "We were hacked again. Bitcoin and Ethereum taken from the HostCo hot
> wallets."

I'm silent on the phone. I'm thinking only, "Is this the fucking
apocalypse?!?

It didn't seem possible. The hack two days prior didn't seem possible,
and this now was just immensely confusing and depressing. I tell Greg to
take the site down again and I'll call him back in 30 minutes. How the
hell are we going to explain this to the community, to our customers...
to our investors? How do we even explain it to ourselves?

I get out of bed, not panicked, but just feeling utterly defeated. I
take the worst shower of my life. Anger surrounds me... we knew Bob was
involved from the hacker's email, and we knew Bob committed a Class 3
felony against us, which the authorities knew about three weeks ago, and
our private investigator had provided all the information needed for an
immediate conviction. And now this happens.

As I gather my thoughts, I decide it's time to call in some professional
resources.

Michael Perklin, Head of Security and Investigative Services at Ledger
Labs, and chairman of the Steering Committee for the Board of CCSS, is
first on my list. He's in Toronto, and agrees to fly out to meet us that
evening. He was on his way to the hospital; he had a toe broken in an
event he'd prefer not to discuss. He changes course and heads to the
airport. What a champion.

I also chat further with heads of several leading exchanges. None of
them like thieves, and are eager to help. Despite its hectic pace and
diversity of opinions and interests, this industry comes together when
it needs to.

1500 ETH recovered, and exchanges are hunting for more. The thief is
probably upset by this... it sucks to be stolen from, after all.

**Fireside Chats with the Thief**

In parallel to all that, I hear again from the thief via email. I had
responded to his "One word: Bob" message by asking if he would provide
more info. He mentions that for a price, he may.

Soon enough, he arrives in ShapeShift's public Slack channel. Rovion
Vavilov.

"hi" he says.

I arrange to pay him 2 BTC for information.

"I need to know what your relation to bob is" I ask. I tried to avoid
pre-empting details.

He replies, "I got information that Bob "hacked" you while I was trying
to hack you too. I had some access before Bob hacked you but not enough
to get the coins myself."

"What do you know about Bob hacking us?" I ask.

"Inside job. 315 BTC." he replies. "I talked to Bob after he took the
coins, asked him about how I could hack it too. He gave me more
information about the infrastructure and some keys."

I ask, "Why would he give you information and what did he give you?"

Rovion responds, "Because I offered BTC. IP addresses, server roles,
users, a working SSH key. Does not work anymore."

We chat further, and he reveals Bob's email that he communicated with.

`m0money@gmail.com`

While I had not seen that email before, it seemed familiar. I thought
for a while, and then realized that Bob often substituted 0′s for o's,
including on one of the two keys which he had deleted from the server
(the specific key was named something which, if displayed, would give
away Bob's real name). That, and the fact that one of Bob's common
password variations was "m0m0ney." Our security guy used l33tspeak for
his passwords, apparently.

As clear as it had been that Bob had stolen our funds a few weeks prior,
it was now clear that this hacker, Rovion, was giving us information
related to Bob that only Bob or those with whom he had actually
interacted would know.

Another thought, could this hacker have actually framed Bob from the
beginning? Sure, perhaps, but every action of Bob's back on March 14th
points away from that explanation, specifically Bob deleting his own
keys right under our nose and then leaving the office, never to return.
Other evidence not listed here further counters that theory.

Back to the chat with Rovion... I ask which "working SSH key" he had
obtained. "None of your business," he responds, "but he told me he got
it from a coworker's open laptop."

Wow. If true, that means Bob, while working at ShapeShift, accessed a
coworkers computer and copied a key (or more?), at some point before he
stole the funds. Did he premeditate the whole thing, I wonder?

I try to get more information, but Rovion is unforthcoming. His last
message...

> Your millions will save you, Erik Voorhees.\
> Goodbye, I will be on email.

By the early evening, our forensic investigator, Michael Perklin, had
arrived. I picked him up from the airport. We had decided to hold off on
poking around in our servers until he was there. While the hacker gave a
vague sense of how he came upon secret information, we didn't really
know the specifics of the breach. Keys had been changed after Bob's
departure, and while we found one key we hadn't remembered to change, it
only had access to a server that could not have stolen the funds on the
preceding Thursday. And again, it wouldn't at all explain how the
Saturday morning theft occurred. Both CloudCo and HostCo had funds
stolen off them, despite them being built as entirely new environments
with wholly new keys.

Michael asked me to convey to him the whole story of the past month. He
proceeded through his investigative protocol, which included the
assumption that nobody at the company was trustworthy. It was hard to
argue that the team was trustworthy, given the fact that this all
started with a rogue employee. It was a depressing feeling.

Many interesting details could be added here about how such forensic
work is done, but space is limited and it's probably unwise to reveal
every such method. After a while, we dove into the logs themselves,
attacking the Saturday logs first. They were deleted, most of them. How
were they deleted? We weren't sure.

We know now how to prevent that... indeed, the experience we've received
throughout this incident has been immensely valuable. Though it sounds
cliché, if your startup is involved in securing information or servers
whatsoever, do yourself a favor and bring in 3rd party professional help
very early. We hadn't needed it at first, because we were small. But
growth creeps up on you, and before you know it you are securing
significant assets with sub-standard methods.

While much of the logs were gone, we in fact recovered a great portion
of them off the "empty" disk space itself using forensic techniques.
This was just lucky. Perhaps the Ghost of Satoshi was looking out for us
(could have used his help a week ago, of course!)

From the recovered data, we discovered the malware, if that's the right
term. There was a program, written in Go, installed on a crucial server
which communicated with coins. This program had its dates changed to
appear consistent with the setup of the server, and its filename made to
look innocuous. But it was the direct tool by which funds were stolen.

`udevd-bridge it was called`

We were glad to find it (and yes, the same thing appeared in both server
environments, CloudCo and HostCo). However, it still didn't explain how
it was put there. We had a lot of information, but not the whole story.

And we wouldn't have the whole story for a couple more days. But then
the stars aligned.

Out of the blue, the hacker, Rovion, emails me again on Wednesday, April
13th.

> From: Rovion Vavilov rovion.vavilov@fastmail.com\
> To: Erik Voorhees erik@shapeshift.io\
> Subject: Re: ShapeShift
>
> "Would you be interested in buying the ETH that I currently hold back
> at\
> a highly discounted rate in exchange for BTC? I'd be willing to trade
> in\
> small quantities since you have no reason to trust me."

Yes, it appears the hacker has gotten annoyed that his Ethereum kept
getting frozen at exchanges. So he comes back to the store he robbed
from, and asks us if we'll trade for a more liquid asset. We'd be
essentially buying back our own Ethereum, and paying him Bitcoin.

Obviously worth it, if we can obtain more information. Since neither of
us trust the other, we establish a protocol.

`1) We pay 2 BTC to get the conversation started 2) Rovion gives us half the relevant information 3) We exchange, in increments of 250, 2000 ETH for BTC at 0.02 BTC/ETH rate 4) Rovion gives us second half of the relevant information 5) We exchange, in the same increments, the remaining 2500 ETH for BTC at same rate 6) We cease communication (this last one was Rovion's suggestion)`

He asks us to send the BTC to his already known BTC address:\
`14Kt9i5MdQCKvjX6HS2hEevVgbPhK13SKD`

After the initial 2 BTC payment, Rovion begins with description of April
7th hack:

> "We contacted Bob. He gave us the ShapeShift core source code, core
> server IP address, an SSH key, and \[redacted\]. I logged in to the
> core server with the SSH key provided, installed a backdoor and took
> the coins since the core server had SSH access to the coins server."

"What's the fingerprint of the SSH key mentioned above?" I ask.

`9c:3f:4b:ad:d6:43:ec:9a:55:de:b9:0b:d8:f5:0a:cb`

We see that it's Greg's key, newly created for the CloudCo environment.
It was not even in existence until more than a week after Bob had stolen
the funds in March and disappeared. How on Earth did this hacker get a
new key, post Bob?

I also ask about the "\[redacted\]" mentioned but Rovion says that is
part of the second batch of information. We proceed with the incremental
exchange of the second batch of funds.

Then Rovion says,

> "\[redacted\] was access to an RDP installed on a coworker's machine
> by Bob. That's how I hacked you the second time."

Wow, now it's starting to come together, each revelation peeling back a
layer of Bob's treachery. Bob had installed an RDP (remote desktop
protocol -- basically a screen viewer or controller) on Greg's computer.
And perhaps on others, we must assume.

Then Rovion shares via pastebin an email from Bob (the info he
purchased):

`hi, i received your 50 bitcoin. gh source and ssh priv key as attachments. core ip: XX.XX.XX.XX router for forwarding: XX.XX.XX.XX:XXXX admin:[redacted password] rdp internal ip: XX.XX.XX.XX acadmin:pass thanks for your business. [2 attachments listed] (specific IP's redacted by us)`

And there it is. Bob sold information on the production servers, access
to ShapeShift's internal network, part of ShapeShift's source code, and
access to an RDP client he had installed on a co-worker's computer, to
Rovion, for 50 Bitcoin. The IP and internal router info checked out.

This explained almost everything. With access to Greg's computer (and
perhaps others), via RDP, the new server environments could be witnessed
and the new SSH keys could be used. It wasn't the cloud service
provider's fault, it was our own.

We had changed almost everything, but hadn't scrapped our personal
computers used while Bob had been part of the team. Would that have been
the paranoid thing to do? Yes. Would it have been the right thing to do?

Clearly.

And one of the last things Rovion said before we ended the discussion,

> "Even though I said cease communication, can you still send me an
> email when Bob gets sued/whatever it is you're going to do? I feel
> it's really shitty to steal from your own employer."

**Cleaning Up a Mess**

We imagine this information will assist in demonstrating criminal intent
on the part of Bob. This was not a spur-of-the-moment taking, but an
orchestrated treachery. I've lost count of the number of felonies
involved at this point.

We also know that while the story from Rovion checks out, it may well
not be the full story. We have to assume other details are relevant to
the case, and to our infrastructure. This is why ShapeShift has been
offline for longer than any of us would have liked. We are being very
careful, and very paranoid.

Nonetheless, I have been immensely proud of my team. Working in a
startup, in the Bitcoin industry, is stressful enough, and then to deal
with a series of layered betrayals like this and all the damage
(financially, technically, psychologically) it causes... that is hard.
You guys have done an amazing job and I am immensely encouraged seeing
the team's cohesion and fortitude.

It didn't help that we had just brought on four new employees in the
very week of the two incidents (nearly doubling our development staff).
They were thrown into the fray without mercy, and they've been
incredible.

**#ShapeShiftUserNotAffected**

To survive in Bitcoin, one has to be an optimist. While the betrayal and
loss and clean up effort has been horribly taxing, there are some silver
linings.

First, no person or organization is perfect. We learned some of our own
vulnerabilities, and our own mistakes. We are correcting them, and
improving upon them wherever possible. Such improvement doesn't come
cheap, but the ShapeShift of today is made better than the ShapeShift of
yesterday. The steel is tempered, the machine refined. Though no single
organization can ultimately achieve it, we try to approach
anti-fragility, and exemplify it as an ideal in our work.

Second, no customers lost money throughout multiple hacks orchestrated
even by an insider. Through decentralization, through code, through
innovation, through structure... consumer protection by design is one of
this industry's most important contributions to society -- something
that a century of legacy banking has failed to achieve, as noted by
Satoshi's infamous line in the Genesis Block.

ShapeShift will always work to develop upon this platform of consumer
protection. Many others in this community are doing the same along
different avenues. Thank you for the tools you are building, and the
work you have done. And indeed, there is still much to do.

To our customers, I would like to personally apologize for our downtime.
While we can ensure your funds are not at risk, I know many rely on our
service, and it has been unavailable. Redundancy, even in the face of
disaster, will be one of our primary development goals going forward.

Further, thank you sincerely to those in the community who reached out
and offered all manner of support, and to our investors who were
immensely kind and understanding.

And finally, as with all intense episodes one endures, we must
appreciate the room and opportunity for growth, for experience, and for
one of life's most precious luxuries, reflection.

Never a dull day in Bitcoinland.

-Erik Voorhees\
CEO ShapeShift.io

And to Bob... Note that your real name and identifying information were
not divulged. Consider that a final, tenuous courtesy.


