# Looting of the Fox


**Looting of the Fox**\
**The Story of Sabotage at ShapeShift**

Bitcoin, as any system of man, exhibits together both the highest ideals
of utopia, and the lowest residual trash of society.

This is the story of how ShapeShift, a leading blockchain asset exchange
platform, was betrayed. Not once, not twice, but three times in less
than a month.

In total, nearly two-hundred thousand dollars in cryptocurrency was
stolen by thieves within and without, not to mention the significant
resources expended in its wake. Nevertheless, no customer funds were
ever lost or at risk, a milestone for an industry pocked with past
tragedy, and ShapeShift itself has adapted and rebuilt, humbled by the
experience learned, and ever more resolute in its mission of safe,
frictionless asset exchange.

In the spirit of Bitcoin's openness, we wanted to share this story with
the community; may you be informed, entertained, reflective, and
ever-diligent in your own affairs.

**The Backstory**

Since its inception in the Spring of 2014, ShapeShift has been an
evolving creature. What began as a quick experimental way to swap
between Bitcoin and Litecoin grew into an advanced engine for the
effortless exchange of all major blockchain assets, each one into the
other, with no user friction. No user accounts. No signup process. It is
the Google Translate of cryptocurrency.

And we've always been playing catch-up. Trying to build at the speed of
this industry, not only along the vertical of Bitcoin proper, but along
the breadth of all crypto, is a challenge.

Last Fall, we realized the "minimum viable product" server architecture
established originally for ShapeShift was insufficient. We needed a
professional to join the small team, and craft a scalable, and secure,
server apparatus upon which our technology could grow.

We hired such a person, and patted ourselves on the back for our
proactive decision. On paper, he looked great; the reference we called
confirmed his prior role and responsibility. He'd even been into Bitcoin
since 2011/2012 and had built miners in his room. Awesome. We'll call
this new employee Bob... indeed his real name starts with a B.

Over the next months, Bob built and managed ShapeShift's infrastructure.
He did okay, nothing special, but we were content to have a professional
taking care of devops at least well enough to enable our engineers to
build upon the architecture.

In the first quarter of this year, as the market discovered what we
already knew -- that our world will be one of many blockchain assets
each needing liquidity with the other -- exchange volumes surged at
ShapeShift. Ethereum was on the rise, specifically. Our infrastructure
was not ready for the pace of growth. It was like riding a bicycle upon
which jet engines suddenly appear full-thrust.

Unfortunately, Bob did little to be helpful. He puttered around
aimlessly while the team worked long hours to keep the ship together.

Scratch that, actually, Bob was not aimless.

He was preparing to steal from us.

**The Genesis Betrayal**

On the morning of March 14th, in the midst of one of our heaviest volume
weeks ever, I get a call from our Head of Operations, Greg. "Erik, our
hot wallet is missing 315 Bitcoin." Why did we have so much in a hot
wallet, you ask? Well, with volumes surging, our hot wallet would be
drained through normal business in an hour at that level, which then
required constant manual rebalancing. Are there ways to automate and
reduce that risk? Absolutely... but hindsight of one's development
priorities is always 20/20.

So 315 Bitcoin was gone.

To those who have experienced such incidents, the feeling of sickness is
profound. It's a deep, dismal state, that doesn't stop at the edge of
financial loss, but permeates down to one's core. When systems are
breached, systems that one has engineered and cared for deeply,
obsessively, that violation of what one considers safe and secure is
very, very uncomfortable. And then there's the loss itself. 315
Bitcoin... roughly \$130,000. That's college tuition, part of a house,
food for ten years... a couple months of payroll. It's a lot of money
for a pre-profit startup.

I rushed to the office, hoping there was some mistake. The only
comforting thought was that the loss was only our own money. With no
customer accounts, neither customer funds nor personal information were
at risk from the hack. That was by design from the beginning of
ShapeShift; one of our tenets. But even if nobody nearby is harmed, a
punch in the face still hurts like hell.

Myself, Greg, and our two lead engineers poured through logs and
servers, trying frantically to figure out what had happened. The 315 BTC
went to an unfamiliar Bitcoin address, and was sitting there.

Indeed, it sits there still:\
`https://blockchain.info/address/1LchKFYxkugq3EPMoJJp5cvUyTyPMu1qBR`

Despite our note to all employees to come into the office urgently, Bob,
our head IT guy, the one responsible for security and infrastructure,
arrives at 11:30am.

We ask Bob to join our discussion. We reveal the hack to him. We ask him
if he had logged in at all that morning, to which he responded no (on
several occasions). On the new of the theft, he seems neither
particularly shocked nor outraged, yet it was his security that failed
us. Immediately, he starts pointing to red herring explanations, "It
must be one of the exchanges that got hacked, that happens all the
time." Umm, our exchange accounts are fine, Bob.

"Well, look at the IP address, it happened somewhere off west Africa."
Umm, IP addresses on block explorers indicate only the first node that
noticed a transaction, and are generally meaningless in the context of
Bitcoin, Bob. (What kind of Bitcoiner doesn't know that?)

Very quickly, we realize he is pretty much useless. Here we have our
"server guy" and he has zero intelligent comments about a hack against
his own infrastructure.

While pouring over logs we noticed, however, a couple SSH keys
(belonging to Bob) that had logged into the breached server that morning
an hour before the rogue transaction, and then logged off two minutes
after. Not nefarious, necessarily, for indeed Bob's keys would be
expected to log in periodically, though the timing was strange (6am-ish
in the morning). We also discovered the breach occurred over the VPN,
meaning someone in the office, or someone with access to our VPN,
committed the theft.

We ask everyone with server access to provide the fingerprints of their
SSH keys so we can start comparing them to logs. Everyone does so, but
another strange thing: the fingerprint of the key handed in by Bob
doesn't appear in any logs. It appears brand new. Strange that the key
of the server admin would never have been seen on any server...

Soon after, Bob decides it's time for his lunch break, and we don't see
him for an hour, during the worst incident in ShapeShift's history. We
frankly didn't care that much, he wasn't helpful and suspicions were
starting to creep in. He tells all of us that he's leaving his laptop
open to download some logs, and makes sure we see that the laptop is
left open. He's being a little weird.

Upon his return an hour later, he is sitting down with other engineers
still investigating what occurred. I'm in the other room on a call. When
I finish my call, I come check on the progress. Bob appears to receive a
call "from his mother who needs to go to the hospital." He packs up his
stuff, grabs his dog who was at the office, and heads out. We're all
half relieved for his departure and half in awe... did our server admin
really just leave for the second time during our investigation, which he
should be leading?

He says, "I'll be back within an hour." This was at about 3pm, March 14.

We never saw him again.

Shortly after he leaves, one of our engineers pulls myself and Greg
aside, and says, "While you were on your call, we were all sitting
around the table, and we saw in the logs that Bob deleted two SSH keys
while he was sitting there with us, then he grep'd several times for
them \[a server command to find specific text\], and then he left. Those
two keys matched the two keys we saw in the log this morning which
accessed the Bitcoin server just prior to the hack."

He just deleted his keys from the server?? Well fuck. Guns don't get any
smokier than that.

We all immediately move to the assumption that Bob stole the funds. He
is out of the building, and so we start locking everything down. All
keys are changed in haste (well, almost all).

We work for a few more hours, no word from Bob. No calls, no texts,
nothing. By the end of the day, it had been 3-4 hours since he left to
"take his mother to the hospital." We decide to call him, without
letting on our suspicions just yet.

> "Hey Bob, where are you?."
>
> "Oh hey, I just decided to go home."
>
> "You're at home?"
>
> "Yeah, just here, working on some stuff."

WTF?

That call is innocuous, but we recorded it. We also recorded the next
one 30 mins later, in which we confront him with some of the evidence.

> "So Bob, it looks like you deleted your SSH keys, and gave us a new
> key that had never accessed any servers."
>
> "Yeah, well I deleted them because I didn't think they were
> important."

Yes, he actually said that. Our server admin, in the midst of an
investigation into a \$130,000 theft, deletes his two keys, and only
these two keys, without telling anyone, and then admits on our call that
he did it because "they weren't important."

It just so happens those two keys were the exact ones logged into the
Bitcoin server that morning, and which logged off two minutes after the
theft transaction. Not important indeed!

He gives no explanation of his behavior or actions that day, but dances
around questions and implies, subtly at first, and then more explicitly,
that we're being racist.

> "Umm Bob, we're targeting you because your keys were on the server,
> and you deleted them and left, during an active investigation."

It goes on like that for 45 mins. He says other ridiculous stuff, all
recorded.

We uncover further evidence details, and there is a sense of relief
after knowing exactly what happened and who was responsible. We spend
the rest of the evening documenting everything, and preparing to file
civil and criminal charges against Bob.

I give him a final chance that evening for redemption. In a message to
all employees, so as not to force him to implicate himself by
responding,

> This is your chance to walk away, learn a lesson, and let this be
> closed. We will not pursue legal action if 315 Bitcoin are found in
> this address by 10am. No further questions will be asked, and we can
> part ways amicably.
>
> Send 315 BTC here:\
> 35JBgzjyCUPswjRP9iqrUTkkX76QwrKkB9
>
> -Erik

I get a response message from Bob at 4:36am,

> "I didn't delete any keys and I regularly log into servers to check
> them out."

Right, except that we have him already on record saying he did delete
the keys and hadn't logged on that morning. His ineptitude at lying
appears outmatched only by his incompetence in server administration.

He goes on, with charming adolescent flare...

> "Of course blaming me is the racist thing to do... you were basically
> looking for an excuse to satisfy your racism. I have no criminal
> history unlike you with the SEC."

The next morning, our general counsel writes a formal letter (via email
and post) to Bob, outlining some of the evidence that we knew, and
demanding the stolen property be returned. It also notified Bob that his
employment was terminated (I think that was fair, considering). In
response, Bob emails back to the lawyer, addressing none of the evidence
whatsoever...

> "Your clients are racist so make sure you know who you're dealing
> with."

It's like he was wearing his internet troll hat in real life. Did he not
even understand the seriousness of the situation? Well... the absurdity
was just getting started.

Over the next days, we file the formal civil complaint. The address Bob
had given us was a PO box, though we had his legal name, his bank info,
and his social serfdom number. We hired a private investigator. We found
his apartment within a couple days. Several attempts at service failed,
though the investigator heard a dog barking behind the door. One of his
cars was found; he drives two unmarked retired police cruisers.

I have investors to whom I owe a level of protocol diligence, so, we
also made arrangements for a criminal case, and herein the theft
constitutes a Class 3 Felony, with 4-12 years in prison. Honestly, I
don't care whether he is punished. I care whether we are made whole, and
whether he realizes his error and changes his life to become a better
person. No sign yet, of that.

We learn some more things. Bob has prior police records in Florida,
where he's from. Incidentally, the records indicate he's white, after
all.

With civil and criminal cases proceeding against him, and with further
discovery that Bob fled to Florida (leaving his dog to be temporarily
cared for by his neighbor... who is now wondering where he is and hasn't
heard from him in weeks), we thought the case was basically closed. We'd
get him somewhere, sooner or later. And, hopefully, we'd get our stolen
property returned, or the fiat equivalent.

**Rovion**

We'd worked to build a new server infrastructure in Bob's wake, assuming
his work in our system to be largely compromised. We set up a new cloud
architecture with a company we'll call CloudCo.

It's now the week of April 4th, and we were about ready to go live with
this new cloud infrastructure.

Then all hell breaks loose. Again.

On Thursday April 7th, around midday, we notice a bunch of Ethereum had
left the hot wallet on the new infrastructure at CloudCo. The NEW
infrastructure. The infrastructure that was not even public yet. At
first, we believed our code had done something weird, perhaps sweeping
funds to a development server address or similar. Then we noticed a
bunch of Bitcoin was also missing. And then Litecoin also.

` Thief's Bitcoin address: 14Kt9i5MdQCKvjX6HS2hEevVgbPhK13SKD Thief's Ethereum address:  0xC26B321d50910f2f990EF92A8Effd8EC38aDE8f5 Thief's Litecoin address: LL9jqgXVqxUbWbWVaJocBcF9Vm8uS3NaTd`

And very quickly reality hits you, and that's what flashback feels like.
The horrible sinking feeling sets in immediately, once again. What the
fuck happened?

Keys that were not even on publicly known servers had been compromised,
somehow. We shut the system down, including our live production site,
while we investigated. We didn't lose as much as the hack a month prior,
because we'd be keeping wallets somewhat conservative, but it was still
quite a bit. We couldn't believe it. How could brand new keys, generated
with brand new infrastructure, be compromised?

After several hours of fruitless investigation, we decide that one of
the most likely explanations is that the cloud company itself was
compromised. This has happened before in Bitcoinland. We thought CloudCo
was reputable, but who knows? Clouds are very convenient and scalable,
but on some level you're trusting that company with your infrastructure.
We decided we had to keep the site down for at least 24 hours, and bust
our asses to prepare, yet again, an entirely new infrastructure on an
entirely new set of servers.

What was nearly as bad as the money lost was not knowing how it
happened. Logs were not done as well as they should have been, so they
proved fruitless. Indeed, they had been wiped.

Despite that, we watched the blockchains for the hacked funds. We
tracked some to an exchange account. We got profile information of the
depositor.

`Name: Rovion Vavilov Email: rovion.vavilov@riseup.net Address: Chayanova St. 15, Moscow DOB: Feb 2, 1980 Phone: +7 9625148445`

That profile information was probably fake, but I emailed him that
night.

> From: Erik Voorhees erik@shapeshift.io\
> To: rovion.vavilov@riseup.net\
> Subject: ShapeShift Hack...\
> "Nice job on the hack. How did you do it? -Erik"

Pro Tip: Black hats like to be recognized for their skill, regardless of
how immoral their deeds may be. Talk to them calmly, as adults. They may
reveal information, or help in some way. It's weird, but it happens. In
any case, I didn't expect anything to come of my email.

The rest of that night, and into the next day (Friday, the 8th), the
team worked feverishly to rebuild everything on new infrastructure, once
again, in a wholly clean environment on a wholly separate host.

Now to many, ShapeShift appears to be a simple web service. It's taken a
lot of work by our engineers to keep up that appearance. Behind the
scenes, the platform is complex. Over 1,400 direct asset trading pairs,
integrations with half a dozen exchange API's requiring real-time price
information on all offered cryptocurrencies, low-latency service API's
to several dozen partners, the monitoring and calculation of constantly
changing exchange rates and order book depth in some of the most
volatile markets on Earth, and incorporation of what can only be
