# Basecamp was under network attack this morning 

[David](/writers/dhh)

Criminals attacked the [Basecamp](https://basecamp.com) network with a
distributed denial-of-service attack (DDoS) this morning. The attackers
tried to extort us for money to make it stop. We refused to give in and
worked with our network providers to mitigate the attack the best we
could. Then, about two hours after the attack started, it suddenly
stopped.

We've been in contact with multiple other victims of the same group, and
unfortunately the pattern in those cases were one of on/off attacks. So
while things are currently back to normal for almost everyone (a few
lingering network quarantine issues remain, but should be cleared up
shortly), there's no guarantee that the attack will not resume.

So for the time being we remain on high alert. We're collaborating with
the other victims of the same group and with law enforcement. These
criminals are sophisticated and well-armed.

Still, we want to apologize for such mayhem on a Monday morning.
Basecamp, and our other services, are an integral part of how most of
our customers get work done. While no data was compromised in this
attack, not being able to get to your data when you need it is
unacceptable.

During the attack we were able to keep everyone up to date using a
combination of [status.basecamp.com](http://status.basecamp.com),
[Twitter](http://twitter.com/37signals/), and [an off-site
Gist](https://gist.github.com/dhh/9741477) (thank you GitHub!). We'll
use the same channels in case we're attacked again. If the attack does
not resume, we will post a complete technical postmortem within 48
hours.

We want to thank all our customers who were affected by this outage for
their patience and support. It means the world to us. Thank you.


[David](/writers/dhh) wrote *this on* Mar 24 2014 *There are* [12
comments].

### Jodi 

[on 24 Mar 14]

The fact that you have been open, honest and have kept us all up to date
is invaluable and speaks volumes. Thank you very much.

### Evan Volgas 

[on 24 Mar 14]

You guys kept everyone up to date, spoke frankly and candidly to the
problem, and just generally responded to this very professionally.
Thanks for staying on top of this, and for responding to this kind of
crisis the way that you should. I was a loyal Basecamper anyway, but
it's the way you guys handle problems like these that make it even less
likely I'll ever leave

### Jeremiah 

[on 24 Mar 14]

Our mutual customers have asked me to advise them on the possibility of
a data breach today. Other customers commenting on this blog seem
confident in your claims that no customer data was compromised and this
was just an extortion attempt. But DDoS attacks are sometimes cover to
exfiltrate data in an APT attack. Our customers' source code is a prime
target for such attacks. so I feel some concern is warranted. In my
reading of the Basecamp service, it seems that some customers may have
had SSL disabled by default, or based on recommendations to enhance
speed or export data to other services. SSL was provided to all Basecamp
customers in 2009, but Basecamp required the users to enable it on their
own at that time. What percentage of your users have not done so, yet?
How are you so certain that customer code repos were not compromised
during this attack? May I be pointed towards customer documentation
regarding your architecture and how our mutual customers can ensure they
are properly implementing database-level encryption of their data on
your service? Does Basecamp retain the keys to a customer's encrypted
repos? Forgive me if these answers are found on the website, a pointer
to them will more than suffice. Thank you...

### Jeremiah 

[on 24 Mar 14]

Learning as I go here---I was misinformed that this was a CVS service,
my apo0logies. However, as a PM platform with file sharing features we
are concerned with the integrity of all data stored on the service, and
the methods which other CVS services hook into Basecamp...

### The Insider 

[on 24 Mar 14]

Jeremiah -- If I was your customer, I wouldn't be paying you to
investigate my concerns by commenting on the company website, but by
getting in touch via support channels behind closed doors, like a
gentleman.

Keep it up, Basecampers.

### Brett Daniels 

[on 24 Mar 14]

Thanks for keeping us up to date -- your transparency is absolutely
appreciated.

### Mads Hjorth 

[on 24 Mar 14]

Well navigated!

Thanks for that extra effort, it really makes a big difference for us --
the customers.

I have just recently argued that cloud services like yours have better
uptime than in house solution. I think that is still the case. But the
way you handle communications and restoring services is well above any
in house operation I have met.

Greetings from a long time follow! (I attended one of your first
presentations of rail in Roskilde some 15 years ago, and I am glad to
see your ambitions are still high)

### Jay Stockwell 

[on 25 Mar 14]

We've gone through the same deal before and it sucks. We now use
Cloudflare at the DNS level to proactively mitigate this. It's an
excellent first line of defense.

### Michael 

[on 25 Mar 14]

Thanks for the good communication all around, and thanks to Jeremiah for
providing the unintentional comedy during the wrap-up.

### Jordan 

[on 25 Mar 14]

I'm excited to read the writeup -- thanks for being so transparent about
things. We were offline all morning, but only felt sorry for the
Basecamp team. Not an angry word was muttered; hopefully that speaks
volumes!

### Chris 

[on 26 Mar 14]

Really appreciated up front communication and honesty about the
uncertainties. Even more appreciative of your architecture keeping those
goons *outside* of the house!

### Jessica 

[on 29 Mar 14]

Thank you for the communication, quick thinking, and honesty. Would love
to hear how you survived the attack. What are your server security
procedures?

## This discussion *is* closed.

