# MAY 2014: Urgent Security Update Regarding Your Bitly Account 


**[UPDATE #4 -- MAY 11, 2014 at 11:33AM EDT: We are sending an email to
all users from the domain bitlysupport.com outlining the steps to secure
your account.  If you have already followed the steps to secure your
account, you do not need to do so again.
]**

**UPDATE #3 -- MAY 9, 2014 at 2:45PM EDT: We have updated this post to
address questions regarding the Bitly iPhone app.**

**UPDATE #2 -- MAY 9, 2014 at 10:30AM EDT:  We have updated this post to
explain what specifically was compromised and we're encouraging all of
our users to secure their Bitly accounts by following the
recommendations listed below.**

**UPDATE #1 -- MAY 8, 2014 at 8:32PM EDT: We have updated the section of
this post regarding users who have Twitter or Facebook accounts
connected to their Bitly accounts.**

We have reason to believe that Bitly account credentials have been
compromised; specifically, users' email addresses, encrypted passwords,
API keys and OAuth tokens. We have no indication at this time that any
accounts have been accessed without permission. We have taken steps to
ensure the security of all accounts, including disconnecting all users'
Facebook and Twitter accounts. All users can safely reconnect these
accounts at their next login.

We are recommending all Bitly users make these changes. Please take the
following steps to secure your account: change your API key and OAuth
token, reset your password, and reconnect your Facebook and Twitter
accounts.

We invalidated all credentials within Facebook and Twitter. Although
users may see their Facebook and Twitter accounts connected to their
Bitly account, it is not possible to publish to these accounts until
users reconnect their Facebook and Twitter profiles.

Following are step-by-step instructions to reset your API key and OAuth
token:

1\) Log in to your account and click on 'Your Settings,' then the
'Advanced' tab.

2\) At the bottom of the 'Advanced' tab, select 'Reset' next to 'Legacy
API key.'

3\) Copy down your new API key and change it in all applications. These
can include social publishers, share buttons and mobile apps.

4\) Go to the 'Profile' tab and reset your password.

5\) Disconnect and reconnect any applications that use Bitly. You can
check which accounts are connected under the 'Connected Accounts' tab in
'Your Settings.'

We have already taken proactive measures to secure all paths that led to
the compromise and ensure the security of all user data going forward.

**If you're experiencing any trouble with the Bitly iPhone app, please
update to the latest version found
[here](https://apps.apple.com/app/id525106063).  We have expedited an update to address any issues.**

If you have account-specific questions, you can reach us at
[privacy@bitly.com](mailto:privacy@bitly.com).

We take your security and trust in us seriously. The team has been
working hard to ensure all accounts are secure.  We apologize for any
inconvenience and we will continue to update our Twitter feed,
[\@Bitly](https://twitter.com/bitly), as
we have any further updates.

Thank you.

