Report from the SNAFUcatchers Workshop on Coping With Complexity

[Brooklyn NY, March 14-16, 2017]

[Download PDF
Version](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7kFkt5WxLeDTml5cTFsWXFCb1U/view)

-   [1. tl;dr and Executive
    Summary](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#1_tl_dr_and_Executive_Summary)
    -   [1.1 tl;dr](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#1_1_tl_dr)
    -   [1.2 Executive
        Summary](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#1_2_Executive_Summary)
-   [2. Introduction](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#2_Introduction)
    -   [2.1 About the SNAFUcatchers consortium and the STELLA
        meeting](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#2_1_About_the_SNAFUcatchers_consortium_and_the_STELLA_meeting)
    -   [2.2 The focus on handling
        anomalies](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#2_2_The_focus_on_handling_anomalies)
    -   [2.3 The above-the-line/below-the-line
        framework](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#2_3_The_above-the-line/below-the-line_framework)
-   [3. Cases](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#3_Cases)
    -   [3.1 Catching the Apache
        SNAFU](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#3_1_Catching_the_Apache_SNAFU)
    -   [3.2 Catching the Travis CI
        SNAFU](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#3_2_Catching_the_Travis_CI_SNAFU)
    -   [3.3 Catching the Logstash
        SNAFU](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#3_3_Catching_the_Logstash_SNAFU)
    -   [3.4 Observations on the
        cases](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#3_4_Observations_on_the_cases)
    -   [3.4.1 Features of the
        anomalies](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#3_4_1_Features_of_the_anomalies)
    -   [3.4.2 Features of the anomaly
        responses](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#3_4_2_Features_of_the_anomaly_responses)
        -   [Surprise](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#3_4_2_Surprise)
        -   [Uncertainty](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#3_4_2_Uncertainty)
        -   [The role of
            search](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#3_4_2_The_role_of_search)
        -   [Evolving system
            representations](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#3_4_2_Evolving_system_representations)
        -   [Generating
            hypotheses](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#3_4_2_Generating_hypotheses)
        -   [Basic
            tools](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#3_4_2_Basic_tools)
        -   [Coordination](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#3_4_2_Coordination)
        -   [Communications in joint
            activity](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#3_4_2_Communications_in_joint_activity)
        -   [Shared
            artifacts](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#3_4_2_Shared_artifacts)
        -   [The consequences of escalating
            consequences](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#3_4_2_The_consequences_of_escalating_consequences)
        -   [Managing
            risk](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#3_4_2_Managing_risk)
        -   [Goal
            sacrifice](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#3_4_2_Goal_sacrifice)
    -   [3.5 Observations on the postmortem
        process](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#3_5_Observations_on_the_postmortem_process)
-   [4. Themes](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#4_Themes)
    -   [4.1 Capturing the value of anomalies through
        postmortems](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#4_1_Capturing_the_value_of_anomalies_through_postmortems)
    -   [4.1.1. Technical issues in
        postmortems:](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#4_1_1_Technical_issues_in_postmortems)
    -   [4.1.2. Social issues in
        postmortems](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#4_1_2_Social_issues_in_postmortems)
    -   [4.2 Blame versus sanction in the aftermath of
        anomalies](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#4_2_Blame_versus_sanction_in_the_aftermath_of_anomalies)
    -   [4.3 Controlling the costs of coordination during anomaly
        response](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#4_3_Controlling_the_costs_of_coordination_during_anomaly_response)
    -   [4.3.1 Offloading work to low-tempo
        periods](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#4_3_1_Offloading_work_to_low-tempo_periods)
    -   [4.3.2 Providing expertise on
        demand](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#4_3_2_Providing_expertise_on_demand)
    -   [4.3.3 Supporting communication and coordination with
        tools](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#4_3_3_Supporting_communication_and_coordination_with_tools)
    -   [4.4 Supporting anomaly response through improved
        visualizations](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#4_4_Supporting_anomaly_response_through_improved_visualizations)
    -   [4.4.1 Understanding cognitive work in context is the starting
        point](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#4_4_1_Understanding_cognitive_work_in_context_is_the_starting_point)
    -   [4.5 Strange loops
        dependencies](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#4_5_Strange_loops_dependencies)
    -   [4.6 Dark Debt](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#4_6_Dark_Debt)
    -   [4.6.1 Technical
        debt](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#4_6_1_Technical_debt)
        -   [Origins of the debt
            metaphor](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#4_6_1_Origins_of_the_debt_metaphor)
        -   [Technical debt and
            refactoring](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#4_6_1_Technical_debt_and_refactoring)
        -   [Technical debt 25 years
            on](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#4_6_1_Technical_debt_25_years_on)
    -   [4.6.2 Dark
        debt](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#4_6_2_Dark_debt)
-   [5. Possible avenues for progress on coping with
    complexity](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#5_Possible_avenues_for_progress_on_coping_with_complexity)
-   [6. Back matter](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#6_Back_matter)
    -   [6.1
        Preparation](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#6_1_Preparation)
    -   [6.2
        Acknowledgements](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#6_2_Acknowledgements)
    -   [6.3 Suggested citation for this
        report](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#6_3_Suggested_citation_for_this_report)
-   [7. References](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#7_References)
-   [Appendix A:
    Glossary](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#Appendix_A_Glossary)
-   [Footnotes](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#Footnotes)

Winter storm STELLA

Woods\' Theorem: As the complexity of a system increases, the accuracy
of any single agent\'s own model of that system decreases rapidly.

# 1. tl;dr and Executive Summary 

## 1.1 tl;dr 

A consortium workshop of high end techs reviewed postmortems to better
understand how engineers cope with the complexity of anomalies (SNAFU
and SNAFU catching episodes) and how to support them. These cases reveal
common themes regarding factors that produce resilient performances. The
themes that emerge also highlight opportunities to move forward.

## 1.2 Executive Summary 

Current generation internet-facing technology platforms are complex and
prone to brittle failure. Without the continuous effort of engineers to
keep them running they would stop working \-- many in days, most in
weeks, all within a year. These platforms remain alive and functioning
because workers are able to detect anomalies, diagnose their sources,
remediate their effect, and repair their flaws and do so ceaselessly \--
SNAFU Catching. Yet we know little about how they accomplish this vital
work and even less about how to support them better in doing it.

During the past year a consortium including Etsy, IBM, IEX, and Ohio
State University has explored issues around software engineering as it
related to internet-facing business platforms. Technical teams from the
consortium partners met for a workshop on coping with complexity. Each
team presented a technical summary of a breakdown that occurred in their
shop. The other teams commented. The Ohio State team facilitated and
summarized emerging themes. Six themes were identified and discussed.

1.  Capturing the value of anomalies through postmortems
2.  Blame versus sanction in the aftermath of anomalies
3.  Controlling the costs of coordination during anomaly response
4.  Supporting work through improved visualizations
5.  The strange loop quality of anomalies
6.  Dark debt

The workshop provides a model for the deep, insightful inquiry that
occurs when technical groups collaborate on anomaly analysis. Spin-offs
from this effort will focus on building capacity for conducting this
work and creating the tooling and processes necessary to assure
efficient and effective response to incidents and post-event reviews.

# 2. Introduction 

On March 14 and 15, 2017, the SNAFUcatchers consortium held an informal
workshop in New York on Coping With Complexity. About 20 people attended
the workshop.

The workshop coincided with a Category 4 winter storm that paralyzed New
York and much of the Eastern seaboard. That storm was named
[STELLA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/March_2017_North_American_blizzard).
Although nearly everyone was able to get to New York, participants from
out of town were unable to return home following the end of the
scheduled meeting. Many stayed an extra night and the workshop was
informally continued on March 16. The participants began calling the
workshop \"STELLA\". Hence the title of this report.

The consortium partners have regular experience responding to handle
anomalies or SNAFUs, and engage in blameless postmortem process in order
to learn from these experiences. Each consortium partner presented a
postmortem analysis selected from their experience with SNAFUs. Each
anomaly could have led to a service outage, but the response was able to
block or limit the cascade of effects before this occurred. These
anomalies, the responses to them, and the impressions from their
internal postmortem were reviewed and discussed by the group. The
following day the participants searched for and characterized common
themes about what factors produce resilient performance, using the
examples of anomalies and responses as a jumping off point. These themes
stimulated discussion about different ways to build resilient
performance in business-critical IT to guide further work by the
consortium.

This report describes the features of anomalies and responses, and
outlines the themes and possible routes for future consortium work to
enhance resilient performance.

## 2.1 About the SNAFUcatchers consortium and the STELLA meeting 

The SNAFUcatchers consortium was created as a vehicle to study
Resilience Engineering concepts in the domain of business-critical
software, and this report represents the first project of the
consortium, called "Coping With Complexity." Coping with complexity has
been a \'thing\' for at least 30 yrs. Experience with accidents, notably
the Three Mile Island nuclear plant accident in 1979, generated intense
interest in how the operators of complex systems managed anomalies.
Important contributions appeared in papers by [Rasmussen and Lind
(1981)](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#ref_28), [Woods
(1988)](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#ref_38), and others restated and
refined these ideas (e.g. [Cook
1998](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#ref_4)). The decision to name the
first SNAFUcatchers project \"Coping With Complexity\" was a nod to the
past and acknowledgement that internet-facing business information
technology has become critical infrastructure. The need to understand
how people manage to keep these systems operating is underlined by the
episodes of service interruption that nearly every company has
experienced.

The Ohio State University\'s Cognitive Systems Engineering Laboratory
personnel have engaged the other consortium partners over the past year.
The lab members have accumulated weeks of on-site time with the
partners, observing work including anomaly responses and postmortems. To
facilitate exchange of learning across the partners the consortium
planned a meeting at which technical experts from the partners would
gather to discuss the issues related to coping with the complexity of
developing and running large, network-delivered information services.

The plan for the meeting was to have each consortium partner present a
case study consisting of a specific anomaly that had disturbed normal
operations and led to a postmortem. Partners were free to choose any
anomaly they liked; there were no specific requirements. The
presentations were intended to be a springboard for examination of the
problems confronting devops groups and the approaches that were being
used to manage those problems. There was no list of topics or specific
issues identified prior to the meeting and there was no other agenda.

Each consortium partner sent a team of practitioners to the meeting.
About 20 people attended the meeting. The participants were seated
around a large table with multiple projection screens showing the
prepared presentation notes and figures. Several people participated
from remote locations using a video conference system.

The first day was devoted to presenting and discussing the anomalies and
response. Each team presented their anomaly, the cascade of effects, and
the process to resolve the event before any service outages occurred.
The teams also described their postmortem process. Recognizing that each
team came from a different industry, used different technology, and that
the organizations were quite different, the presentations included
descriptions of the technical and organizational context in which the
anomaly occurred. There was a substantial back-and-forth discussion
during the presentations as participants sought details and
clarification about \"the way you do things at X Corp\" and the
anomalies themselves.

The teams presenting are experts on their software from a continuous
development and operations perspective. Each team's local perspective
overlaps with the other teams presenting cases of SNAFU catching. After
each presentation, the group discussed the anomaly and postmortem,
compared and contrasted the events, responses, and subsequent
postmortems, and related topics. These lively and animated discussions
helped all see and reflect on common patterns. In every case the group
response to a presentation included \"oh, I can see how that could
happen\" or \"that has happened here\" reactions.

The OSU participants guided the reflection to connect the patterns in
these cases to a wider set of results about cognitive work in anomaly
response, resilience, joint activity, and proactive learning without
waiting for failures to occur.

The second day of the meeting began with a review of the presentations.
The floor was then opened for more general discussion of the themes and
topics that attendees considered important, interesting, or confusing.
The process of contrasting and shifting perspectives revealed what is
otherwise hidden about resilient performances and what is essential to
build and sustain the ability to be resilient in the face of surprise in
the future. This discussion was wide ranging and touched on many topics
that are described further in this report.

## 2.2 The focus on handling anomalies 

The approach to reveal SNAFU catching and anomaly response draws on
techniques in Cognitive Systems Engineering including process tracing,
knowledge elicitation, and critical incident methods (cf. [Flanagan
1954](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#ref_8), [Shattuck & Woods
1994](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#ref_31), [Sarter
2006](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#ref_30), [Klein, G. A.,
Calderwood, R., & Macgregor,
D.,1989](http://snafucatchers.github.io/#ref_16)). The set of anomalies
presented serve as probes to reveal resilience performance and
capabilities needed to produce resilient performance. The contrast of
events and the multiple perspectives in the discussions helped to reveal
general themes about coping with complexity in anomaly response (Woods
and Hollnagel, 2006, chapter 8).

The anomalies are rich data sources, each of which had already been
probed and analyzed in depth by one team. During presentation and
discussion, the other two teams evaluate, assess, and probe using the
presenting team as a resource. The participants are experts with
relevant experience. They rapidly understand the basic elements of the
anomaly and get quickly to the level of detail at which the anomaly is
subtle, difficult to manage, and challenging. The language of their
discourse is highly technically encoded and would be difficult for
non-experts to understand. It is also extremely efficient and focused.
While not fluent in this technical language, the OSU team, by virtue of
having spent the previous year working with the other teams, was able to
engage the discussions and help connect the points to more general
issues.

The use of actual anomalies anchors the discussion in important ways.
Experts are typically much better at solving problems than at describing
accurately how problems are solved. Eliciting expertise usually depends
on tracing how experts solve problems. This is the main method of work
used by the OSU team in studying expertise. The STELLA meeting used well
studied, relevant, demanding anomaly cases successfully handled as
stimuli for the elicitation of expertise. The structured inquiry into
