# Target checkout systems back up after hourslong outage 

Even after the retailer said the problem had been addressed, customers
reported delays.Â 

**By [Katy
Read](https://www.startribune.com/katy-read/6134696/ "Katy Read") and [Jackie
Crosby](https://www.startribune.com/jackie-crosby/6370610/ "Jackie Crosby")

June 16, 2019 --- 5:50am

Target stores in Minnesota and across the nation were effectively
paralyzed for several hours Saturday when a system malfunction left
frustrated customers unable to make purchases.

Displaying varying degrees of patience, Minnesotans making their weekend
Target runs waited in long lines through the afternoon, many of them
toting Father\'s Day cards and gifts for Sunday celebrations, as
cashiers painstakingly typed in bar code numbers because price scanners
weren\'t working. At many stores, abandoned carts full of merchandise
jammed areas near the exits, left by customers whose time or tempers ran
short.

A flood of complaints began flowing on social media platforms just
before 1 p.m., with the Minneapolis-based retailer issuing no immediate
explanation and later responding only that it was aware of the
situation. A little more than three hours later, the company announced
that the registers were back online and that checkout lines were moving
again.

\"The temporary outage earlier today was the result of an internal
technology issue that lasted for approximately two hours,\" said Target
spokeswoman Katie Boylan. \"Our technology team worked quickly to
identify and fix the issue, and we apologize for the inconvenience and
frustration this caused for our guests.\"

The company emphasized that it wasn\'t hacked and said the problems
affected only its stores, not target.com.

But even after Boylan issued her statement, customers at some stores,
including the Edina Target, said they were still seeing problems. At
4:30 p.m., Kelley Clawson of Minneapolis was stuck in a self-checkout
line at the Edina store with about a dozen other people.


Special to the Star Tribune, Star Tribune

Shoppers waited for cash registers to come back online after a
nationwide outage Saturday, June 15, at the St. Paul Midway Target.


\"These are crazy long lines,\" said Clawson, who was on what she
thought would be a quick break from her nearby job. \"I didn\'t expect
to take a half-hour in line.\"

The Edina store finally got back up to speed just before 5 p.m.,
customers said.

Boylan said later that the pace of problems and fixes varied across
stores.

\"Technology fixes of this nature tend to roll out over nearly 1,900
stores at a gradual pace,\" she said. \"We saw different things across
the country, different reports, different fixes ... over time. It\'s
hard to have specific sweeping answers about what exactly this looks
like.\"

Boylan said the company has made \"an initial, but thorough review
\[and\] can confirm that this was not a data breach or a
security-related issue, and no guest information was compromised at any
time.\"

### A smudged image 

The system failure during peak hours on Father\'s Day weekend meant not
only lost sales but a new blemish for a company that has tried
customers\' understanding on other occasions in recent years.

In June 2014, Target blamed a defect with a network device for a problem
with its point-of-sale systems. In that case, the problem happened on a
Sunday evening and was resolved within hours.

In 2017, it agreed to pay \$18.5 million to settle claims by 47 states
and Washington, D.C., and end an investigation into a major data breach
that happened in 2013. In that case, hackers accessed Target\'s gateway
server through credentials stolen from a third-party vendor.

### Outage in major cities 

The website downdetector.com showed reports of Saturday\'s outage in
major cities, including the Twin Cities, Los Angeles, Atlanta, Chicago,
New York City and Baltimore. The reports began spiking around midday.

Danielle Wilson\'s Twitter post summed up the thoughts of many
frustrated shoppers: \"Nothing like loading up your \@Target cart on a
SATURDAY for them to announce that ALL registers are down (an hour now)
My veggies are melting apparently it\'s a global issue. Is it the
Apocalypse?!?!\"

At the downtown Minneapolis store, employees at the door told customers
they were welcome to shop but warned them of long lines because of the
checkout delays. Most shoppers looked patiently resigned as they waited
to buy cards, pop, toothpaste and other items as the line of about 50
people inched forward.

\"I thought the self-checkout would be quick, but it doesn\'t look like
it,\" said Margaret Wainwright of Minneapolis.

Some stores, including Minneapolis\' and Richfield\'s, were able to
complete sales as employees manually worked through issues at the
registers. Employees at the stores tried to placate shoppers with free
Starbucks and popcorn.

At the downtown store, cashier Jodi Chu of Minneapolis was smiling, even
though it was only her second day at Target and her first time working a
cash register. Occasionally a product could be scanned successfully, but
most attempts brought up error messages. For those, she had to enter
prices, tax and other information manually.

\"I got really good training,\" Chu said.

Trevor Nelson of Lake Elmo, who works for a concert promoter that was
presenting a show at the Armory on Saturday night, had been dispatched
to buy bottles of juice and other refreshments requested by the band.
Target, with its parking ramp and adjacent liquor store, had seemed a
convenient place to get everything.


Star Tribune, Star Tribune

A shopper left the downtown Minneapolis Target store on Saturday, June
15.

\"This is --- this was --- going to be the perfect stop,\" Nelson said,
wondering if he\'d still get free parking in the ramp if he wasn\'t able
to make the \$20 minimum purchase.

About half an hour later, having inched his way 20 feet closer in line,
Nelson heard that customers who\'d made it to the registers were getting
parking passes as well as \$5 gift cards.

\"Woo-hoo,\" he said with a touch of sarcasm. \"This is my lucky day.\"

Staff writer Suzanne Ziegler contributed to this report.

